File: annual_report_23, Page number: 0
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate Office - One Skymark, Tower-D, Plot No. H-10B, Sector-98, Noida-201304 
T: +91120 4770770      F: +91120 4770771     CIN: L72200DL2000PLC108985 
Registered Office - 136, First Floor, Devika Tower, Nehru Place, New Delhi-110019 
One 97 Communications Limited 
compliance.officer@paytm.com 
www.paytm.com 
 
August 21, 2023 
 
BSE Limited 
Department of Corporate Services,  
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, 
Dalal Street, Fort,  
Mumbai – 400 001  
 
Scrip Code: 543396 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
The Listing Department, 
Exchange Plaza,  
Bandra Kurla Complex, 
 Mumbai – 400 051 
 
Symbol: PAYTM 
 
Sub.:  
Disclosure under Regulation 34 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 - Notice of 23rd Annual General Meeting and Annual 
Report for the financial year 2022-23 
 
Dear Sir / Ma’am, 
 
This is in reference to our letter dated August 19, 2023 regarding the 23rd Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM”) of the Company scheduled to be held on Tuesday, September 12, 2023 at 09:00 a.m. (IST) 
through Video Conferencing (“VC”)/ Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”). The AGM is being 
convened in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 read with rules made 
thereunder, SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing 
Regulations”) and applicable circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and Securities and 
Exchange Board of India. 
 
Pursuant to Regulation 34(1) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, we are enclosing herewith the following: 
1. Notice of the 23rd AGM  
2. Annual Report for the financial year 2022-23.  
 
The 
aforesaid 
documents 
are 
also 
available 
on 
the 
website 
of 
the 
Company 
at 
https://ir.paytm.com/agm and are being sent in electronic mode to all the Members of the Company 
whose e-mail addresses are registered with the Company/ RTA/ Depositories/ Depository 
Participant(s). 
 
The Company has provided the facility to vote by electronic means (remote e-voting as well as e-voting 
at the AGM) on all resolutions as set out in the Notice of AGM to those Members, who will be holding 
shares either in physical or in electronic form as on the cut-off date i.e., Tuesday, September 05, 2023. 
The remote e-voting shall commence on Friday, September 8, 2023 from 9:00 a.m. (IST) and conclude 
on Monday, September 11, 2023 at 5:00 p.m. (IST). 
 
This disclosure will also be hosted on the Company's website viz. www.paytm.com. 
 
Kindly take the same on record.  
 
Thanking you 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
For One 97 Communications Limited 
 
 
Sunil Kumar Bansal 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
Encl.: As above 
SUNIL KUMAR 
BANSAL
Digitally signed by SUNIL KUMAR 
BANSAL 
Date: 2023.08.21 18:17:08 +05'30'

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 1
Notice
1
One 97 Communications Limited 
CIN: L72200DL2000PLC108985
Registered Office: First Floor, Devika Tower, Nehru Place, New Delhi - 110019, Delhi, India
Corporate Office: One Skymark, Tower - D, Plot No. H - 10B, 
Sector - 98, Noida - 201304, Uttar Pradesh, India
Telephone No.: +91 - 120 - 4770 770; Fax: +91 - 120 - 4770 771
Email: compliance.officer@paytm.com; Website: www.paytm.com
Notice of the 23rd Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the 23rd Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Members of 
One 97 Communications Limited (“Company”), 
will be held on Tuesday, September 12, 2023 
at 9:00 am (IST) through Video Conferencing 
(“VC”)/ Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”) to 
transact the following business(es):
Ordinary Business:
1.	 To receive, consider and adopt the Audited 
Standalone and Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Company for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2023, together with 
the reports of the Board of Directors and 
Auditors thereon.
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass 
the following resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT the Audited Standalone 
Financial Statements of the Company for 
the financial year ended March 31, 2023, 
together with the reports of the Board of 
Directors and Auditors thereon, be and are 
hereby received, considered and adopted.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Audited 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the 
Company for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2023, together with the report 
of the Auditors thereon, be and are hereby 
received, considered and adopted.”
2.	 To appoint a director in place of Mr. Madhur 
Deora (DIN: 07720350), who retires by 
rotation and being eligible offers himself 
for re-appointment.
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass 
the following resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 152 and all other applicable 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013,  
Mr. Madhur Deora (DIN: 07720350), who 
retires by rotation and being eligible offers 
himself for re-appointment, be and is hereby 
re-appointed as a Director of the Company, 
liable to retire by rotation.”

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 2
Notice
2
3.	 To approve the appointment of M/s. S.R. 
Batliboi & Associates LLP, Chartered 
Accountants as the Statutory Auditors of 
the Company.
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass 
the following resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED 
THAT 
pursuant 
to 
the 
provisions of Sections 139, 141, 142 and 
all other applicable provisions, if any, of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) read with 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014, and such other rules made thereunder 
(including any statutory modification(s) or 
re-enactment thereof for the time being in 
force) and pursuant to the recommendations 
of the Audit Committee and the Board 
of Directors of the Company (“Board”), 
M/s. S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP (Firm 
Registration No. 101049W/E300004) be 
and is hereby appointed as Statutory 
Auditors of the Company for a term of 5 
(five) consecutive years, to hold the office 
from conclusion of the 23rd Annual General 
Meeting till the conclusion of the 28th Annual 
General Meeting of the Company, on such 
remuneration as may be decided by the 
Board on the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board 
(which term shall include any Committee of 
the Board authorized in this regard) be and is 
hereby authorized to do all such acts, deeds, 
matters and things as may be deemed proper, 
necessary, or expedient, including filing the 
requisite forms or submission of documents 
with any authority, for the purpose of giving 
effect to this resolution and for matters 
connected therewith, or incidental thereto.”
Special Business:
4.	 To approve the  remuneration of Mr. Madhur 
Deora 
(DIN: 
07720350), 
Whole-time 
Director designated as “Executive Director, 
President 
and 
Group 
Chief 
Financial 
Officer” of the Company.
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the 
following resolution as a Special Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions 
of Sections 196(4), 197, 198, Schedule V and 
all other applicable provisions, if any, of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014, applicable provisions 
of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (including 
any amendment(s), statutory modification(s) 
or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time 
being in force) or any other applicable laws, 
rules, regulations etc. for the time being in 
force, in accordance with relevant provisions 
of Articles of Association of the Company, 
subject to such approval, permission, consent, 
sanction as may be required in this regard 
and pursuant to the recommendations of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the 
Audit Committee and the Board of Directors 
of the Company (hereinafter referred to as the 
“Board” which term shall be deemed to include 
any Committee of the Board constituted to 
exercise its powers, including the powers 
conferred by this resolution and/or such other 
persons as may be authorized in this regard by 
the Board and/or Committee), approval of the 
Members of the Company, be and is hereby 
accorded, for payment of remuneration to 
Mr. 
Madhur 
Deora 
(DIN: 
07720350), 
'Executive Director, President and Group 
Chief Financial Officer' of the Company, for a 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 3
Notice
3
period of 3 (three) years effective from April 
01, 2023 till March 31, 2026, as detailed in the 
explanatory statement attached hereto, as a 
minimum remuneration where the Company 
has no profits or the profits of the Company 
are inadequate, notwithstanding that the 
aforesaid remuneration may be in excess of 
the limits specified under Section 197 and 
Schedule V of the Act.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and 
is hereby authorised to vary, alter and modify 
the terms and conditions of remuneration of 
Mr. Madhur Deora, within the overall limits 
approved herein, and further authorized to 
do all such acts, deeds, and things, as it may, 
in its absolute discretion deem necessary, 
expedient or desirable, with power on behalf 
of the Company to settle all such questions, 
difficulties or doubts whatsoever that may 
arise while giving effect to this resolution, 
without requiring the Board to secure any 
further consent or approval of the Members 
of the Company.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT all actions taken 
by the Board in connection with any matter 
referred to or contemplated in the foregoing 
resolution, be and are hereby approved, 
ratified and confirmed in all respects.”
Registered Office:
First Floor, Devika Tower,
Nehru Place, New Delhi - 110019, India  
CIN: L72200DL2000PLC108985
E-mail ID: compliance.officer@paytm.com
Date: August 16, 2023
By order of the Board of Directors  
For One 97 Communications Limited
                                       Sunil Kumar Bansal
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
Membership No.: F 4810
Address: One Skymark, Tower - D,  
Plot No. H - 10B, Sector - 98,  
Noida - 201304, Uttar Pradesh, India

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 4
Notice
4
Notes:
1.	 In 
order 
to 
facilitate 
the 
maximum 
participation of the Members of the Company 
from different locations, the AGM is being 
held through VC/ OAVM in terms of various 
circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs (“MCA”) and Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (“SEBI”).
2.	 Pursuant to various circulars including 
the General Circular No. 10/2022 dated 
December 28, 2022, issued by the MCA 
(“MCA Circulars”) and the various circulars 
including SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/
PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/4 dated January 5, 2023 
issued by SEBI (“SEBI Circulars”) (“hereinafter 
collectively referred as the Circulars”), 
companies are allowed to hold AGM through 
VC/ OAVM, without the physical presence 
of Members at a common venue. Hence, 
in compliance with the Circulars, the AGM 
of the Company is being held through VC/
OAVM. The registered office of the Company 
shall be deemed to be the venue for the 
AGM.
3.	 Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) read 
with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management 
and Administration) Rules, 2014, Secretarial 
Standard on General Meetings issued 
by the Institute of Company Secretaries 
of India (“SS-2”), Regulation 44 of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI 
Listing Regulations”) and the Circulars, 
the Company is providing the facility of 
remote e-voting and e-voting at AGM to its 
Members in respect of the business(es) to be 
transacted at the AGM. For this purpose, the 
Company has appointed National Securities 
Depository Limited (“NSDL”), to provide the 
VC/ OAVM facility for conducting the AGM 
and for voting through remote e-voting or 
e-voting at the AGM. The procedure for 
participating in the meeting through VC/ 
OAVM is explained in notes.
4.	 Pursuant 
to 
MCA 
Circulars, 
Members 
attending the 23rd AGM through VC/ OAVM 
shall be counted for the purpose of reckoning 
the quorum under Section 103 of the Act.
5.	 An explanatory statement pursuant to 
Section 102 of the Act read with relevant 
rules made thereunder setting out material 
facts relating to the business set out under 
Item No. 3 and 4 forms part of the Notice 
of 23rd AGM (“Notice”). Further, the relevant 
details with respect to Item No. 2 pursuant 
to Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations and SS-2, in respect of the 
Director seeking  re-appointment at this 
AGM also forms part of the Notice. 
6.	 A Member entitled to vote at the AGM is 
entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote 
on his/ her behalf and the proxy need not be 
a Member of the Company. In terms of the 
MCA Circulars, since the AGM is being held 
through VC/ OAVM, physical attendance 
of the Members has been dispensed with. 
Accordingly, the facility for appointment 
of the proxies by Members under Section 
105 of the Act is not available and hence 
the proxy form and attendance slip are not 
annexed to this Notice. The attachment of 
the route map for the AGM venue is also 
dispensed with.
7.	 Electronic Dispatch of Notice and Annual 
Report 
	
In compliance with the Circulars, the Notice 
along with the Annual Report for FY 2022-
23 (“Annual Report'') is being sent only by 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 5
Notice
5
electronic mode to those Members whose 
email address are registered with the 
Company/ Link Intime India Private Limited, 
the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent of the 
Company (“RTA”)/ Depositories/ Depository 
Participant(s) and whose names appear in 
the Register of Members of the Company 
and/ or in the Register of Beneficial Owners 
maintained by the Depositories. Members 
may please note that this Notice and Annual 
Report will also be available on the Company’s 
website at https://ir.paytm.com/agm, websites 
of the Stock Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited and 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
at www.bseindia.com & www.nseindia.com 
respectively, on the website of NSDL at www.
evoting.nsdl.com and on the website of RTA at 
https://linkintime.co.in.
8.	 Inspection of the Documents
	
The Register of Directors and Key Managerial 
Personnel (“KMPs”) and their shareholding 
maintained under Section 170 of the Act, the 
Register of Contracts or Arrangements in 
which Directors are interested, maintained 
under Section 189 of the Act and the 
certificate from the Secretarial Auditor of the 
Company certifying that the ESOP Schemes 
of the Company have been implemented 
in accordance with the SEBI (Share Based 
Employee 
Benefits 
and 
Sweat 
Equity) 
Regulations, 2021, as amended, and the 
resolution(s) passed by the Members of the 
Company or any other documents referred to 
in the accompanying Notice and explanatory 
statement, shall be made available for 
inspection electronically by the Members, 
during business hours, in accordance with 
the applicable statutory requirements based 
on the requests received by the Company at 
compliance.officer@paytm.com.
9.	 Remote e-voting
	
a)	 The facility for the Members to exercise 
their right to vote through electronic 
means will be available during the 
following period:
	
	
Commencement of e-voting: Friday, 
September 08, 2023 at 9:00 a.m. (IST)
	
	
Conclusion 
of 
e-voting: 
Monday, 
September 11, 2023 at 5:00 p.m. (IST)
	
b)	 The remote e-voting will not be allowed 
beyond the aforesaid date and time and 
the e-voting module shall be disabled by 
NSDL upon expiry of the aforesaid period. 
The voting rights of the Members for 
remote e-voting and for e-voting at the 
AGM shall be in proportion to the paid-up 
value of their shares in the equity share 
capital of the Company as at close of the 
business hours on Tuesday, September 
05, 2023 (“Cut-off date”).
	
c)	 The Members of the Company, whose 
name appears in the Register of Members 
or in the Register of beneficial owners 
maintained by the depositories as on 
Cut-off date and who are otherwise not 
barred to cast their vote, are entitled to 
vote electronically either through remote 
e-voting or e-voting at the AGM, on the 
resolutions set forth in this Notice. Once 
the vote on a resolution is cast by a 
Member, he/she shall not be allowed to 
change it subsequently or cast the vote 
again. A person who is not a Member as on 
the Cut-off date should treat this Notice for 
information purposes only.
	
d)	 Any person who acquires shares of the 
Company and becomes a Member of the 
Company after the dispatch of Notice 
and holding shares as on Cut-off date, 
may obtain the login ID and password by 
sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in. 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 6
Notice
6
However, if he/ she is already registered 
with NSDL for remote e-voting, then he/ 
she can use his/ her existing user ID and 
password for casting the vote.
	
e)	 The Members who have cast their vote by 
remote e-voting prior to the AGM may also 
attend the AGM through VC/ OAVM but 
shall not be entitled to cast their vote again.
	
f)	 Pursuant to the SEBI circular SEBI/
HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 
dated 
December 9, 2020 on ‘e-voting facility 
provided by Listed Companies’, Individual 
Members holding securities in demat 
mode can vote through their demat 
account maintained with Depositories 
and Depository Participants (“DP’s”) only. 
This enables e-voting for all individual 
demat account holders, by way of a single 
login credential, through their demat 
accounts/ websites of Depositories/ DP’s. 
Demat account holders would be able to 
cast their vote without having to register 
again with the e-voting service providers, 
thereby, not only facilitating seamless 
authentication but also enhancing ease 
and convenience of participating in the 
e-voting process.
	
g)	 Members who have not registered/ 
updated 
their 
email 
address 
are 
requested to register/ update the same 
(i) in case of shares held in demat 
mode, as per the process advised by 
concerned DP’s; and (ii) In case of share 
held in physical form, may get their 
e-mail addresses registered with Link 
Intime India Pvt. Ltd., by clicking the link: 
https://web.linkintime.co.in/EmailReg/
Email_Register.html 
and 
follow 
the 
registration process as guided therein. 
The Members are requested to provide 
details such as Name, Folio Number, 
Certificate number, PAN, mobile number 
and e-mail ID and also upload the image 
of PAN, Aadhaar Card, share certificate 
& Form ISR-1 in PDF or JPEG format (up 
to 1 MB).
	
	
On submission of the Members details 
an OTP will be received by the Member 
which needs to be entered in the link for 
verification.
	
	
In case of any queries, Member may write to 
rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.co.in, under help 
section or call on Tel no.: 022-49186000;
	
	
Members may also refer to the FAQs 
available on the website of the Company 
at https://ir.paytm.com/faqs.
	
Login method for Individual Members 
holding securities in demat/physical mode 
is given below:
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-voting 
system
A)	 Login method for e-voting and joining AGM 
for Individual Members holding securities in 
demat mode
	
In terms of SEBI circular, SEBI/HO/CFD/
CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 dated December 9, 
2020, on e-voting facility provided by Listed 
Companies, Individual Members holding 
securities in demat mode are allowed to vote 
through their demat account maintained with 
Depositories and Depository Participants. 
Members are advised to update their 
mobile number and e-mail ID in their demat 
accounts in order to access e-voting facility.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 7
Notice
7
Type of Member
Login Method
Individual 
Members holding 
securities in 
demat mode with 
NSDL
•	 Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL Viz. https://
eservices.nsdl.com either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. On the 
e-Services home page click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” 
which is available under ‘IDeAS’ section, this will prompt you to enter your 
existing User ID and Password. After successful authentication, you will 
be able to see the e-voting services under Value added services. Click 
on “Access to e-voting” under e-voting services and you will be able to 
see e-voting page. Click on company name or e-voting service provider 
i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-voting website of NSDL for 
casting your vote during the remote e-voting period or joining AGM & 
voting during the meeting.
•	 If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available 
at https://eservices.nsdl.com. Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” 
or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp
•	 Visit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open a web browser by typing 
the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a personal 
computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e- Voting system is 
launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under Member’s 
section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e. 
your sixteen-digit demat account number hold with NSDL), Password/
OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen. After successful 
authentication, you will be redirected to the NSDL Depository site wherein 
you can see the e-voting page. Click on company name or e- Voting 
service provider name i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-voting 
website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-voting period 
or joining  AGM & voting during the meeting.
•	 Members can also download the NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” 
facility by scanning the QR code mentioned below for seamless voting 
experience.
	
	
Login method for Individual Members holding securities in demat mode is given below:

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 8
Notice
8
Type of Member
Login Method
Individual	
Members holding 
securities in 
demat mode with 
CDSL
•	 Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through 
their existing user ID and Password. Option will be made available to 
reach e-voting page without any further authentication. The users to 
login Easi /Easiest are requested to visit CDSL website www.cdslindia.
com and click on login icon & New System Myeasi Tab and then use your 
existing my easi User ID and Password.
•	 After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-voting 
option for eligible companies where the e-voting is in progress as per the 
information provided by the company. On clicking the e-voting option, the 
user will be able to see the e-voting page of the e-voting service provider 
for casting your vote during the remote e-voting period or joining AGM & 
voting during the meeting. Additionally, there are also links provided to 
access the system of all e-voting Service Providers, so that the user can 
visit the e-voting service providers’ website directly.
•	 If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available 
at CDSL website www.cdslindia.com and click on login & New System 
Myeasi Tab and then click on registration option.
•	 Alternatively, the user can directly access e-voting pages by providing 
Demat Account Number and PAN No. from an e-voting link available on 
www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will authenticate the user 
by sending OTP on registered Mobile & e-mail as recorded in the Demat 
Account. After successful authentication, user will be able to see the 
e-voting option where the evoting is in progress and also able to directly 
access the system of all e-voting Service Providers.
Individual	
Members (holding 
securities in 
demat mode) 
& login through 
their Depository 
Participants
•	 You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account 
through your Depository Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for 
e-voting facility. Upon logging in, you will be able to see the e-voting 
option. Click on e-voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL 
Depository site after successful authentication, wherein you can see 
e-voting feature. Click on company name or e-voting service provider 
i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to the e-voting website of NSDL for 
casting your vote during the remote e-voting period or joining AGM & 
voting during the meeting.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 9
Notice
9
	
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use 
Forget User ID and Forget Password option available at abovementioned website.
	
Helpdesk for Individual Members holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues 
related to login through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Members holding 
securities in demat mode 
with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL 
helpdesk by sending a request at  evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at 
022 - 4886 7000 and 022 - 2499 7000
Individual Members holding 
securities in demat mode 
with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL 
helpdesk by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.
com or contact at toll free no. 1800 22 55 33
Manner of holding shares 
i.e. Demat (NSDL or CDSL) 
or Physical
 Your User ID is:
a)	For Members who hold 
shares in demat account 
with NSDL.
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID
For example, if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 
12****** then your user ID is IN300***12******.
b)	For Members who hold 
shares in demat account 
with CDSL.
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example, if your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then 
your user ID is 12**************
B)	 Login Method for e-voting and joining 
AGM for Members other than Individual 
Members holding securities in demat mode 
and Members holding securities in physical 
mode.
	
How to Log-in to NSDL e-voting website?
	
1.  	Visit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open 
a web browser by typing the following 
URL: 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ 
either on a Personal Computer or on a 
mobile.
	
2.  	Once the home page of e-voting system 
is launched, click on the icon “Login” 
which is available under ‘Members/
Shareholders’ section.
	
3.  	A new screen will open. You will have to 
enter your User ID, Password/OTP and 
a Verification Code as shown on the 
screen.
	
	
Alternatively, if you are registered for 
NSDL e-services i.e. IDEAS, you can log-
in at https://eservices.nsdl.com/ with 
your existing IDEAS login. Once you log-
in to NSDL e-services after using your 
log-in credentials, click on e-voting and 
you can proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your 
vote electronically.
	
4.  	Your User ID details are given below:

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 10
Notice
10
Manner of holding shares 
i.e. Demat (NSDL or CDSL) 
or Physical
 Your User ID is:
c)	For Members holding 
shares in Physical Form.
EVEN Number followed by Folio Number registered with the 
Company.
For example, if folio number is 001*** and EVEN is 101456 
then user ID is 101456001***
	
5.  	Password details for Members other 
than Individual Members are given 
below:
	
	
a)	 If you are already registered for 
e-voting, then you can use your 
existing password to login and cast 
your vote.
	
	
b)	 If you are using the NSDL e-voting 
system for the first time, you will need 
to retrieve the ‘initial password’ which 
was communicated to you. Once you 
retrieve your ‘initial password’, you 
need to enter the ‘initial password’ 
and the system will force you to 
change your password.
	
	
c)	 How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
	
	
	
(i)	 If your e-mail ID is registered in 
your demat account or with the 
company, your ‘initial password’ 
is communicated to you on your 
e-mail ID. Trace the email sent to 
you from NSDL from your mailbox. 
Open the email and open the 
attachment i.e. a .pdf file. Open 
the .pdf file. The password to 
open the .pdf file is your 8-digit 
client ID for NSDL account, last 
8 digits of client ID for CDSL 
account or folio number for shares 
held in physical form. The .pdf file 
contains your ‘User ID’ and your 
‘initial password’.
	
	
	
(ii)	If your e-mail ID is not registered, 
please follow steps mentioned 
below in the process for those 
Members whose e-mail IDs are 
not registered.
	
6.	 If you are unable to retrieve or have not 
received the “Initial password” or have 
forgotten your password:
	
	
a)	 Click 
on 
“Forgot 
User 
Details/
Password?”(If you are holding shares 
in your demat account with NSDL 
or CDSL) option available on www.
evoting.nsdl.com.
	
	
b)	 Physical User Reset Password?” (If 
you are holding shares in physical 
mode) option available on www.
evoting.nsdl.com.
	
	
c)	 If you are still unable to get the 
password by aforesaid two options, 
you can send a request at evoting@
nsdl.co.in mentioning your demat 
account number/folio number, your 
PAN, your name and your registered 
address etc.
	
	
d)	 Members can also use the OTP (One 
Time Password) based login for 
casting the votes on the e-voting 
system of NSDL.
	
7.  	After entering your password, tick on 
Agree to “Terms and Conditions” by 
selecting on the check box.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 11
Notice
11
	
8.  	Now, you will have to click on the “Login” 
button.
	
9.  	After you click on the “Login” button, 
home page of e-voting will open.
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically 
and join AGM on NSDL e-voting system.
How to cast your vote electronically and join 
AGM on NSDL e-voting system?
1.  	After successful login at Step 1, you will 
be able to see all the companies “EVEN” in 
which you are holding shares and whose 
voting cycle and General Meeting is in active 
status.
2.  	Select “EVEN” of the Company for which you 
wish to cast your vote during the remote 
e-voting period and casting your vote during 
the General Meeting. For joining virtual 
meeting, you need to click on “VC/OAVM” 
link placed under “Join Meeting”.
3.  	Now you are ready for e-voting as the voting 
page opens.
4.  	Cast your vote by selecting appropriate 
options i.e. assent or dissent, verify/modify 
the number of shares for which you wish 
to cast your vote and click on “Submit” and 
also “Confirm” when prompted.
5.	 Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast 
successfully” will be displayed.
6.	 You can also take the printout of the votes 
cast by you by clicking on the print option on 
the confirmation page.
7.	 Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, 
you will not be allowed to modify your vote.
8. 	 The facility for joining the AGM through VC/ 
OAVM shall be opened for the Members 30 
minutes before the scheduled time of the 
commencement of the AGM and shall not 
be closed till expiry of 15 minutes after the 
scheduled time of AGM.
9.	 The facility of participation at the AGM 
through VC/ OAVM will be made available 
on first come first served basis. This will not 
apply to large Members (Members holding 
2% or more shareholding) and Institutional 
Investors who are allowed to attend the 
AGM without any restriction on account of 
first come first served basis. Institutional 
Investors are encouraged to attend and vote 
at the AGM.
General Guidelines for Members
1.	 Institutional 
Members 
(i.e. 
other 
than 
individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) are required to 
send scanned copy (PDF/JPG Format) of the 
relevant Board Resolution/ Authority letter etc. 
with attested specimen signature of the duly 
authorized signatory(ies) who are authorized 
to vote, to the Scrutinizer by e-mail to nitesh@
indiacp.co.in with a copy marked to evoting@
nsdl.co.in and to the Company at compliance.
officer@paytm.com. Institutional Members 
(i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) can 
also upload their Board Resolution / Power of 
Attorney / Authority Letter etc. by clicking on 
“Upload Board Resolution / Authority Letter” 
displayed under “e-voting” tab in their login.
2.	 It is strongly recommended not to share 
your password with any other person and 
take utmost care to keep your password 
confidential. Login to the e-voting website 
will be disabled upon five unsuccessful 
attempts to key in the correct password. In 
such an event, you will need to go through 
the “Forgot User Details/Password?” or 
“Physical User Reset Password?” option 
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com to reset 
the password.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 12
Notice
12
3.	 In case of any queries, you may refer the 
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for 
Members and e-voting user manual for 
Members available at the download section 
of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on 022 - 
4886 7000 and 022 - 2499 7000 or send a 
request to (Pallavi Mhatre, Senior Manager) 
at evoting@nsdl.co.in.
Process for those Members whose 
e-mail IDs are not registered with the 
depositories for procuring User ID and 
Password and registration of e-mail 
IDs for e-voting for the resolutions set 
out in this Notice:
1.  In case shares are held in physical mode 
please provide Folio No., Name of Member, 
scanned copy of the share certificate (front 
and back), PAN (self-attested scanned 
copy of PAN card), Aadhaar (self-attested 
scanned copy of Aadhaar Card) by email to 
compliance.officer@paytm.com.
2.	 In case shares are held in demat mode, 
please provide DPID-CLID (16 digit DPID 
+ CLID or 16 digit beneficiary ID), Name, 
client master or copy of Consolidated 
Account 
statement, 
PAN 
(self-attested 
scanned copy of PAN card), Aadhaar (self-
attested scanned copy of Aadhaar Card) to 
(compliance.officer@paytm.com). If you are 
an Individual Member holding securities in 
demat mode, you are requested to refer to 
the login method explained at step 1 (A) i.e. 
Login method for e-voting and joining virtual 
meeting for Individual Members holding 
securities in demat mode.
3.	 Alternatively, Member may send a request 
to evoting@nsdl.co.in for procuring User 
ID and Password for e-voting by providing 
above mentioned documents.
The instructions for Members for 
e-voting on the day of AGM are as 
under:-
1.	 The procedure for e-voting on the day of the 
AGM is same as the instructions mentioned 
above for remote e-voting.
2.	 Only those Members, who will be present in 
the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and have 
not casted their vote on the Resolutions 
through remote e-voting and are otherwise 
not barred from doing so, shall be eligible to 
vote through e-voting system in the AGM.
3.	 Members who have voted through remote 
e-voting will be eligible to attend the AGM. 
However, they will not be eligible to vote at 
the AGM.
	
The details of the person who may be 
contacted for any grievances connected 
with the facility for e-voting on the day of the 
AGM shall be the same person mentioned 
for remote e-voting. 
Instructions 
for 
Members 
for 
attending the AGM through VC/OVAM 
are as under:
1.	 Members will be provided with a facility to 
attend the AGM through VC/OAVM through 
the NSDL e-voting system. Members may 
access by following the steps mentioned 
above for Access to NSDL e-voting system. 
After successful login, you can see a link of 
“VC/OAVM link” placed under “Join meeting” 
menu against the Company name. You are 
requested to click on VC/OAVM link placed 
under the Join Meeting menu. The link for 
VC/OAVM will be available in Member’s login 
where the EVEN of the Company will be 
displayed. Please note that the Members 
who do not have the User ID and Password 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 13
Notice
13
for e-voting or have forgotten the User ID and 
Password may retrieve the same by following 
the remote e-voting instructions mentioned 
in the notice to avoid last minute rush.
2.	 Members are encouraged to join the Meeting 
through Laptops for better experience.
3.	 Members will be required to allow camera and 
use the Internet with a good speed to avoid any 
disturbance during the meeting.
4.	 Participants connecting from Mobile Devices 
or Tablets or through Laptop connecting via 
mobile hotspot may experience Audio/Video 
loss due to fluctuation in their respective 
network. It is therefore recommended to use 
Stable Wi-Fi or LAN Connection to mitigate 
any kind of aforesaid glitches.
5.	 Members who would like to express their 
views/ have questions may send their 
questions in advance mentioning their name, 
demat account number/ folio number, e-mail 
ID, mobile number at compliance.officer@
paytm.com. The same will be replied by the 
Company suitably.
10.	Instructions for Members to speak during 
the AGM:
	
a)	 To ensure smooth transmission and 
co-ordination during the Q&A Session, 
the Company is providing the facility of 
speaker registration.
	
b)	 The Members, who would like to express 
their views or ask questions during 
the AGM may register themselves as 
a speaker by sending their request 
from their registered e-mail address 
mentioning their name, DP ID and Client 
ID/Folio number, PAN, mobile number at 
compliance.officer@paytm.com 
on 
or 
before Thursday, September 07, 2023. 
Only those Members who are registered 
as speaker will be allowed to express their 
views or ask questions during the AGM. 
	
c)	 Members can also submit their questions 
in advance with regard to the accounts 
or any other matter to be placed at the 
AGM by sending an email to the Company 
at 
compliance.officer@paytm.com, 
by 
mentioning their name, DP ID Client ID/ 
folio number, mobile number on or before 
Thursday, September 07, 2023.
	
d)	 Members can also send their video by 
sending an email at compliance.officer@
paytm.com. The maximum duration of 
the video should be three minutes, such 
questions will be replied by the Company 
suitably.
	
e)	 Members will get confirmation on first 
cum first basis depending upon the 
provision made by the Company and will 
receive ‘speaking serial number’ once 
they mark attendance for the meeting. 
	
	
Note:
	
	
•	 The Company reserves the right to 
restrict the number of questions and 
number of speakers, depending upon 
the availability of time, for smooth 
conduct of the AGM.
	
	
•	 Members are requested to speak only 
when the moderator of the meeting/ 
management will announce the name 
and serial number for speaking.
11.	 Scrutinizer for e-voting and Declaration of 
Results:
	
a)	 Mr. Ankit Singhi (C.P No. 16274) and in 
his absence Mr. Nitesh Latwal (C.P. No. 
16276), Partners of M/s. PI & Associates, 
practicing Company Secretaries, has 
been appointed as the Scrutinizer to 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 14
Notice
14
scrutinize the e-voting during the AGM 
and remote e-voting process in a fair 
and transparent manner and they have 
communicated their willingness to be 
appointed and will be available for the 
said purpose.
	
b)	 The Scrutinizer after the conclusion of 
voting at the AGM, shall unblock the votes 
cast through e-voting (votes cast through 
remote e-voting and votes cast during 
the AGM) and shall, not later than 48 
hours from conclusion of the AGM, make 
a consolidated scrutinizer’s report of the 
votes cast in favour or against, if any, and 
submit the same to the Chairman of the 
meeting or a person authorised by him in 
writing, who shall countersign the same.
	
c)	 The Chairman or the authorized person 
shall declare the results. The results 
declared shall be available on the 
website of the Company https://ir.paytm.
com/agm and on the website of NSDL 
at 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com 
and 
shall also be displayed on the notice 
board at the registered and corporate 
office of the Company. The results shall 
simultaneously be communicated to the 
Stock Exchanges.
	
d)	 The resolutions will be deemed to be 
passed on the date of AGM, i.e. Tuesday, 
September 12, 2023 subject to receipt of 
the requisite number of votes in favour of 
the resolutions.
12.	The recorded transcript of the AGM shall 
also be made available on the website of the 
Company at https://ir.paytm.com/agm as soon 
as possible after the conclusion of AGM.
13.	Members may please note that SEBI vide 
its 
Circular 
No. 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_
RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 
dated 
January 
25, 
2022, has mandated the Listed Companies 
to issue securities in dematerialized form 
only while processing service requests viz. 
Issue of duplicate securities certificate; 
claim from unclaimed suspense account; 
renewal/exchange of securities certificate; 
endorsement; 
sub-division/splitting 
of 
securities 
certificate; 
consolidation 
of 
securities 
certificates/folios; 
transmission 
and transposition. Accordingly, Members 
are requested to make service requests by 
submitting a duly filled and signed Form ISR 
– 4, the format of which is available on the 
Company’s website at https://ir.paytm.com/
faqs and on the website of the Company’s 
RTA, 
at 
https://web.linkintime.co.in/client-
downloads.html  It may be noted that any 
service request can be processed only 
after the folio is KYC Compliant as per SEBI 
circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-1/P/
CIR/2023/37 dated  March 16, 2023. The 
KYC formats are available on the Company’s 
website at  https://ir.paytm.com/faqs and on 
the website of the Company’s RTA at https://
web.linkintime.co.in/KYC-downloads.html.
14.	In terms of Regulation 40(1) of the SEBI 
Listing 
Regulations, 
as 
amended 
from 
time to time, transfer, transmission and 
transposition of securities shall be effected 
only in dematerialized form. In view of the 
same and to eliminate all risks associated 
with physical shares and avail various 
benefits of dematerialization, Members are 
advised to dematerialize the shares held by 
them in physical form. Members can contact 
the Company or RTA, for assistance in this 
regard.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 15
Notice
15
15.	As per the provisions of Section 72 of the 
Act, the facility for making nomination is 
available for the Members in respect of the 
shares held by them. Members who have 
not yet registered their nomination are 
requested to register the same by submitting 
Form No. SH-13. If a Member desires to 
opt out or cancel the earlier nomination 
and record a fresh nomination, he/she may 
submit the same in Form ISR-3 or SH-14 
as the case may be. The said forms can be 
downloaded from the Company’s website 
https://ir.paytm.com/faqs. 
Members 
are 
requested to submit the said details to their 
DP in case the shares are held by them in 
dematerialized form and to RTA in case the 
shares are held in physical form.
16.	SEBI has mandated the submission of PAN 
by every participant in the securities market. 
Members holding shares in dematerialised 
form are therefore requested to submit 
their PAN to the DP’s with whom they are 
maintaining their dematerialised accounts. 
Members  holding securities  in physical 
form are requested to submit their PAN, KYC 
and nomination details to the Company’s 
RTA. In case a holder of physical securities 
fails to furnish PAN and KYC details before 
October 1, 2023 in accordance with the 
SEBI circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-
1/P/CIR/2023/37 dated March 16, 2023, 
RTA is obligated to freeze such folios. The 
securities in the frozen folios shall be eligible 
to receive payments (including dividend) 
and lodge grievances only after furnishing 
the complete documents. If the securities 
continue to remain frozen as on December 
31, 2025, the RTA / the Company shall refer 
such securities to the administering authority 
under the Benami Transactions (Prohibitions) 
Act, 1988, and / or the Prevention of Money 
Laundering Act, 2002.
17.	 Transfer 
to 
Investor 
Education 
and 
Protection Fund
	
a)	 Transfer of Unclaimed Dividend:
	
	
The Company has not transferred any 
amount to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund (“IEPF”), as there are no 
unclaimed/ unpaid dividend for any of 
the financial years.
	
b)	 Transfer of Unclaimed Matured Fixed 
Deposits and Interest accrued thereon:
	
	
The Company does not have any Fixed 
Deposits.
	
c)	 Transfer of Shares:
	
	
Adhering to the various requirements set 
out in the IEPF Authority (Accounting, 
Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 
2016, as amended, the Company has 
not transferred any equity shares of the 
Company during FY 2022-23 to the IEPF 
Authority in respect of which dividend 
had remained unpaid or unclaimed for 
seven consecutive years.
	
d)	 Details of unclaimed amounts on the 
Company’s website:
	
	
Since there were no unpaid and unclaimed 
dividend amounts lying with the Company, 
the Company was not required to upload 
any such details on its website or on the 
website of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
at the web-link: http://www.iepf.gov.in. 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 16
Notice
16
Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”)
Item No. 3
The Company had appointed M/s. Price 
Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP (Firm 
Registration No. 012754N/N500016) as the 
Statutory Auditors of the Company at the 
18th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) held on 
September 28, 2018 for a period of 5 (five) 
consecutive years, to hold office from the 
conclusion of the 18th AGM till the conclusion of 
23rd AGM of the Company.
M/s. Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants 
LLP will complete their present term as Statutory 
Auditors of the Company on conclusion of the 
ensuing AGM. Further, pursuant to provisions 
of Section 139, 141, 142 and other applicable 
provisions of the Act read with the Rules made 
thereunder and the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”), the Board 
of Directors of the Company (“Board”), at 
its meeting held on March 31, 2023, on 
recommendation of Audit Committee had 
recommended the appointment of M/s. S.R. 
Batliboi & Associates LLP (Firm Registration No. 
101049W/E300004) as the Statutory Auditors of 
the Company for a period of 5 (five) consecutive 
years, in place of retiring Statutory Auditors, 
M/s. Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants 
LLP, to hold the office from the conclusion 
of 23rd  AGM till the conclusion of the 28th 
AGM of the Company, to be held for FY 
2027-28, 
at 
an 
annual 
remuneration 
of  
H 14.20 million (consisting Statutory audit fee, 
limited review fee and other services fee), plus 
out of pocket expenses and applicable taxes for 
FY 2023-24. There is no material change in the 
fees for the statutory audit paid to M/s. Price 
Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP for FY 
2022-23, the retiring Statutory Auditors and the 
fees proposed to be paid to M/s. S.R. Batliboi & 
Associates LLP for FY 2023-24.
It is proposed to give authority to the Board, on 
the recommendation of the Audit Committee, 
to agree, revise, review and vary the terms & 
conditions of such appointment, remuneration 
etc. and to fix the remuneration to be paid for the 
subsequent years during their remaining tenure as 
the Statutory Auditors of the Company including 
out of pocket expenses and applicable taxes.
In addition to the statutory audit, the Company 
will also obtain certifications from M/s. S.R. 
Batliboi & Associates LLP under various 
statutory regulations and other permissible non-
audit services as required from time to time, for 
which their remuneration shall be approved by 
the Audit Committee, in accordance with the 
provisions of Sections 142 and 144 of the Act.
While considering the appointment of M/s. S.R. 
Batliboi & Associates LLP as Statutory Auditors, 
the Audit Committee and the Board evaluated 
the firm on various parameters including but not 
limited to industry experience, competency of 
the audit team, efficiency in conduct of audit, 
independence, transition, overall audit approach, 
sector expertise and understanding of the 
Company & its business.
M/s. S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP, is a 
limited liability partnership firm of Chartered 
Accountants, registered with the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India. Firm has a 
registered office at 22 Camac Street, 3rd Floor, 
Block B, Kolkata - 700016. M/s. S.R. Batliboi & 
Associates LLP has a valid peer review certificate 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 17
Notice
17
and is a part of S.R. Batliboi & Affiliates network 
of audit firms. It is primarily engaged in providing 
audit and assurance services to its clients.
M/s. S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP has given 
their consent to act as the Statutory Auditors 
of the Company and confirmed that the 
appointment, if made, will be in accordance 
with the conditions prescribed under Sections 
139 and 141 of the Act.
None of the Directors and KMPs of the Company 
or their relatives are, in any way, concerned or 
interested in the Resolution set out at Item No. 
3 of the Notice.
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution 
set out at Item No. 3 of the Notice for approval 
by the Members.
Item No. 4
The Members of the Company, at their 22nd 
AGM held on August 19, 2022, based on 
the 
recommendations 
of 
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration 
Committee 
and 
the 
Board, 
approved the appointment of Mr. Madhur 
Deora as Whole-time Director of the Company 
designated as “Executive Director, President and 
Group Chief Financial Officer”, liable to retire by 
rotation, for a term of 5 (five) years with effect 
from May 20, 2022 up to May 19, 2027 and the 
terms of remuneration for a period from May 
20, 2022 to March 31, 2023, as detailed in the 
explanatory statement attached to the Notice 
dated May 20, 2022. 
Mr. Deora is liable to retire by rotation and being 
eligible offers himself for re-appointment at 23rd 
AGM. 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 196(4), 
197, 198 and Schedule V of the Act relating to 
payment of managerial remuneration in case 
of absence of profits and/ or inadequacy of 
profits, the Company may pay remuneration 
over and above the ceiling limit as specified 
therein, provided the Members’ approval by 
way of a special resolution has been obtained 
for payment of minimum remuneration, subject 
to compliance with disclosure requirements 
and other conditions stated therein. In view 
of the foregoing factors, the approval of the 
Members of the Company is being sought for 
payment of remuneration to Mr. Madhur Deora, 
for the period commencing from April 01, 2023 
to March 31, 2026, as may be permitted under 
applicable laws, in case of absence of profits 
and / or inadequacy of profits of the Company.
The details of proposed remuneration,  as  approved 
by the Board  at its meeting held on May 05, 2023 
based on the recommendation of Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee, to be paid to  
Mr. Madhur Deora as Whole-time Director 
designated as "Executive Director, President and 
Group Chief Financial Officer" of the Company are 
as under:
a)	Remuneration 
(For 
the 
three 
financial years i.e. FY 2023-24 to 
FY 2025-26) 
	
o	 Fixed pay: H 3,65,45,850 p.a. (with no 
further increment therein)
	
o	 Variable 
Remuneration 
(Long-Term 
Incentive Plan “LTIP”) upto H 89,33,430 
p.a (with no further increment therein) 
and will be paid out in 3 tranches. 50% 
of LTIP shall be paid out on completion 
of the 1st year end, 25% on completion of 
the 2nd year end and 25% on completion 
of the 3rd year end relating to the 
respective financial years. LTIP shall be 
payable based on performance, reviewed 
and approved by the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, and will be 
paid if the employee is on the rolls of the 
Company on the payment date.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 18
Notice
18
	
o	 Stock Options :
	
	
•	 No Options are proposed to be 
granted under this resolution and any 
future ESOP grants will be subject 
to approval of Members, as may be 
required under applicable laws.
b)	 Perquisites: As per Company’s policy and 
shall be within the remuneration as stated 
above in para (a).
c)	 Statutory Benefits and other Company 
benefits: As per the Company’s policy, 
from time to time, including but not limited 
to contribution to provident fund, gratuity, 
leave encashment, medical insurance for 
self and family.
d)	 Reimbursements: Mr. Madhur Deora shall also 
be entitled to reimbursement of all legitimate 
expenses incurred by him in performance 
of his professional duties including but not 
limited to communication and travel expenses 
(including but not limited to reimbursements 
related to mobile bill, data card bills, internet 
bills, travel expenses, meal expenses etc. as 
per Company policy). Such reimbursement 
will not form part of his remuneration.
e)	 Minimum Remuneration: In the event of 
absence of profits and/ or inadequacy of 
profits in any financial year during the tenure 
of Mr. Madhur Deora as Whole-time Director 
designated as “Executive Director, President 
and Group Chief Financial Officer”, the 
payment of above remuneration, perquisites, 
statutory benefits and other Company 
benefits, 
and 
stated 
reimbursements 
shall be made notwithstanding that such 
remuneration 
may 
exceed 
the 
limits 
prescribed under Section 197 read with 
Schedule V of the Act or under the provisions 
of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 ("SEBI 
Listing Regulations") or under any other 
laws for the time being in force, if any.
	
Mr. Madhur Deora holds total 677,774 stock 
options,  which were granted in previous 
financial years under One97 Employees Stock 
Option Scheme 2019 (referred to as “Scheme”), 
and were duly approved by the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee/ Board/ Members of 
the Company, as applicable, from time to time 
as per terms of the Schemes / applicable laws.
	
While considering the proposal for payment 
of remuneration to Mr. Madhur Deora, 
the Board of Directors and Nomination 
Remuneration Committee of the Company 
noted that Mr. Madhur Deora plays a 
significant leadership role in the Company 
and has been instrumental in devising the 
financial and operational strategy critical 
for the Company, and is assisting with a 
commercial roadmap to realize the long term 
vision of the organization and driving overall 
governance.
	
Taking into consideration the size of the 
Company, his profile, the responsibilities 
shouldered 
by 
him 
and 
the 
industry 
benchmarks, the remuneration proposed to 
be paid is at par with the industry standard 
and has been reviewed by the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee.
	
Brief profile of Mr. Madhur Deora forms part of 
this Notice. The terms as set out in the resolution 
and explanatory statement may be treated as an 
abstract of the terms of employment pursuant 
to Section 190 of the Act. 
	
The information as required to be disclosed 
pursuant to Section II of Part II of Schedule 
V to the Act, Secretarial Standard-2 issued 
by the Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India and SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015 
forms part of this Notice.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 19
Notice
19
	
The Company has not defaulted in payment 
of dues to any bank or public financial 
institution or non-convertible debenture 
holders or other secured creditor, if any.
	
Save and except Mr. Madhur Deora and his 
relatives to the extent of their shareholding 
in the Company, if any, none of the other 
Directors / Key Managerial Personnel and 
their relatives are in any way, concerned or 
interested, financially or otherwise, in the 
resolution set out in item no. 4 of the Notice.
	
The 
Board 
recommends 
the 
Special 
Resolution set out at item no. 4 of the Notice 
for approval by the Members.
Additional information as required 
under Schedule V of the Act with 
respect to Item no. 4
I.	 General Information
	
(a)	Nature of industry:
	
	
The Company owns and operates the 
brand “Paytm”. Paytm is India’s leading 
mobile payments and financial services 
distribution company, offering consumers 
and merchants a comprehensive suite 
of payment services. Pioneer of the 
mobile QR payments revolution in India, 
Paytm builds technologies that help 
small businesses with payments and 
commerce. The Company also distributes 
various financial services offerings to its 
consumers and merchants in partnership 
with financial institutions.
	
(b)	Date 
or 
expected 
date 
of 
commencement 
of 
commercial 
production:
	
	
The Company commenced business 
from the date of its incorporation on 
December 22, 2000.
	
(c)	In case of new companies, expected 
date of commencement of activities 
as per project approved by financial 
institutions 
appearing 
in 
the 
prospectus:
	
	
Not Applicable
(Amounts in H Million)
Particulars
 Consolidated 
 Standalone 
 Year ended 
 Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022
Total income
84,000
52,643
64,271
41,754
Total expenses
101,304
76,011
82,199
64,561
Contribution Profit
39,003
14,981
34,016
12,691
Contribution Margin%
48.80
30.10
56.43
32.60
EBITDA (Before ESOP expense)
(1,756)
(15,177)
(3,208)
(15,344)
Margin%
(2.20)
(30.50)
(5.30)
(39.40)
Net Profit/(Loss)
(17,765)
(23,964)
(18,558)
(23,251)
Paid-up Capital
634
649
634
649
Reserves & Surplus
129,522
140,867
122,233
136,476
	
(d)	Financial performance based on given indicators:

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 20
Notice
20
	
(e)	Foreign investments or collaborations, 
if any:
	
	
The Company has not entered into any 
material foreign collaboration during the 
previous 3 (three) financial years. The 
foreign investors, mainly comprising of 
FIIs and NRIs, are on account of issuances 
of securities and/or secondary market 
purchases, from time to time. As on 
March 31, 2023, the aggregate foreign 
shareholding in the Company was approx. 
71.83%.
II.	 Information about the appointee:
	
a)	 Background details, job profile and 
suitability:
	
	
Mr. Madhur Deora holds a bachelor's 
degree of science in economics from 
the Wharton School of the University 
of Pennsylvania. He is a professional 
Director and in his present role with 
the Company, he is responsible for 
devising the financial and operational 
strategy, investor relations, assisting 
with a commercial roadmap to realize 
the long term vision of the organization 
and driving overall governance. He was 
previously associated with Citigroup 
Global Markets India Private Limited.
	
b)	 Past Remuneration: ₹ 38,841,000 p.a. 
as approved by the Members including 
LTIP amounting to ₹ 70,62,000.
	
c)	 Remuneration proposed: As mentioned 
in the explanatory statement above.
	
d)	 Recognition or awards: Nil	
	
e)	 Comparative remuneration profile with 
respect to industry, size of the Company, 
profile of the position and person (in 
case of expatriates the relevant details 
would be with respect to the country of 
origin):
	
	
Considering the size of the Company, 
the 
profile 
of 
Mr. 
Madhur 
Deora, 
his responsibilities and the industry 
benchmarks, the remuneration proposed 
is in line with remuneration drawn for 
similar positions in companies of similar 
scale and size.
	
	
We participated in an Aon Salary 
benchmarking survey and used the 
Mercer e-commerce forum to benchmark 
compensation. 
The 
recommended 
increases 
basis 
performance 
was 
presented 
to 
the 
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration Committee along with 
the survey data and basis this all 
compensation approvals including KMPs 
and 
Senior 
Management 
Personnel 
were obtained from the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee.
	
f)	 Pecuniary 
relationship 
directly 
or 
indirectly 
with 
the 
Company, 
or 
relationship 
with 
the 
Managerial 
Personnel or other Director, if any: 
Mr. Madhur Deora has no pecuniary 
relationship with the Company or its 
KMPs other than his remuneration in the 
capacity of “Executive Director, President 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 21
Notice
21
and Group Chief Financial Officer”. As on 
date of this notice, he holds 6,88,394 
(0.11%) equity shares of the Company in 
his personal capacity.
III.	Other Information: 
	
a)	 Reason of loss or inadequate profits: 
The Company has invested in growing 
and strengthening the Paytm ecosystem, 
through acquisition and retention of 
consumers and merchants and providing 
them with greater access to technology 
and financial services. In the quarter 
ending March 2023, the average Monthly 
Transacting User (“MTU”) base was 90 
million, an increase of 27% y-o-y and the 
number of merchants paying subscription 
for payment devices was 6.8 million (as 
compared to 2.9 million as of March 
2022). The Company makes substantial 
investments towards marketing and 
promotions, product and engineering 
talent to build technology solutions, 
expanding 
sales 
team, 
providing 
devices and services to merchants to 
enable them to service and expand 
their consumer base and strengthening 
technology powered payments platform 
to provide consumers and merchants 
with a greater access to technology and 
financial services.
	
b)	 Steps taken or proposed to be taken for 
improvement and expected increase in 
productivity and profits in measurable 
terms:
	
	
Focus on monetization along with control 
on costs has yielded strong results. 
The Company has driven significant 
improvement in Payments contribution 
margins, growth of high margin Financial 
Services, 
and 
increased 
margin 
in 
Commerce & Cloud services. Paytm ended 
the fiscal year with strong growth across 
businesses and reductions in EBITDA 
before ESOP cost losses, and also achieved 
operating breakeven (EBITDA before ESOP 
cost) in the quarter ended December 2022, 
significantly ahead of the shared guidance 
timeline of September 2023.
Registered Office:
First Floor, Devika Tower,
Nehru Place, New Delhi - 110019, India  
CIN: L72200DL2000PLC108985
E-mail ID: compliance.officer@paytm.com
Date: August 16, 2023
By order of the Board of Directors  
For One 97 Communications Limited
                                       Sunil Kumar Bansal
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
Membership No.: F 4810
Address: One Skymark, Tower - D,  
Plot No. H - 10B, Sector - 98,  
Noida - 201304, Uttar Pradesh, India

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 22
Notice
22
Information of Director in accordance with provisions of Regulation 36(3) of 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, 
Companies Act, 2013 and Secretarial Standard-2, as on the date of Notice
Name of the Director
Mr. Madhur Deora
Director Identification Number (DIN)
07720350
Date of birth (Age)
September 12, 1978 (44 years)
Original date of appointment
May 20, 2022
Qualifications
Bachelor’s degree of science in economics from the 
Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania
Experience and expertise in specific 
functional areas
Economics, Finance, Investor Relation and rich 
Managerial experience
Remuneration sought to be paid (₹)
4,54,79,280 p.a. including LTIP of up to 89,33,430
Remuneration Last Drawn (₹)
3,88,41,000 p.a. including LTIP 70,62,000
Number of Meetings of Board attended 
during the year
7 (seven)
Number of Committee meetings attended 
during the year
 1 (one) 
(Member-Stakeholders Relationship Committee)
Shareholding (as on the date of this Notice) 
in One 97 Communications Limited, either 
directly or as beneficial holder
6,88,394 equity shares (0.11%)
Relationship with other Directors / KMPs
Not related to any Director or KMPs of the Company
Terms and conditions of re-appointment
Appointment and terms thereof were already 
approved by Members at the AGM held on August 
19, 2022 and there is  no change in same. His 
remuneration is being approved for FY 2023-24 to 
FY 2025-26 in this AGM
Listed Companies from which the person 
has resigned from the directorship in the 
past three years
NIL

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 23
Notice
23
Name of the Director
Mr. Madhur Deora
Directorships held in other companies in 
India
•	 Paytm Payments Services Limited
•	 Paytm Payments Bank Limited
•	 Paytm Financial Services Limited
•	 Paytm Money Limited
•	 First Games Technology Private Limited
•	 Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
•	 Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
•	 Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
•	 Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
Membership/ Chairmanship of Committees’ 
in companies in India
I.	 Paytm Money Limited
	
•	 Audit Committee (Chairman)
	
•	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
(Chairman)
II.	 First Games Technology Private Limited
	
•	 Audit Committee (Member)
	
•	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
(Member)
III.	 Paytm Payments Services Limited
	
•	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 
(Member)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 24
Annual Report 
FY’23

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 26
Corporate Overview
Corporate Information
4
Board of Directors
5
Letter from the CEO
6
Management 
Discussion & 
Analysis
8
Contents
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
26
Corporate 
Governance 
Report 
68
Business 
Responsibility 
& Sustainability 
Report
114
Financial Statements
Standalone 
Financial 
Statements
179
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements
306
Annual Report 
2023

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 27
4
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
Board of Directors
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma 
Chairman, Managing Director and 
Chief Executive Officer 
 
Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli 
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director 
 
Mr. Neeraj Arora 
Non-Executive Independent Director 
 
Mr. Madhur Deora 
Executive Director, President & 
Group Chief Financial Officer 
 
Mr. Ashit Ranjit Lilani 
Non-Executive Independent Director 
 
Mrs. Pallavi Shardul Shroff 
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. Gopalasamudram Srinivasaraghavan
Sundararajan 
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. Sunil Kumar Bansal 
Company Secretary & 
Compliance officer 
 
Statutory Auditors
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP 
 
Secretarial Auditor
PI & Associates Company Secretaries
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent
Link Intime India Private Limited 
 
Registered Office
First Floor, Devika Tower, Nehru Place, New 
Delhi -110019, India 
 
Corporate Office
Paytm Corporate Office, One Skymark, 
Tower-D, Plot No. H-10B, Sector-98, Noida, 
Uttar Pradesh - 201304, India 
 
Website
www.paytm.com
Corporate Information

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 28
5
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma 
Chairman, Managing Director 
and Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Ravi Chandra 
Adusumalli 
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director
Mr. Neeraj Arora 
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
Mr. Madhur Deora 
Executive Director, 
President & Group 
Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Ashit Ranjit Lilani 
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
Mrs. Pallavi Shardul 
Shroff 
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
Board of Directors
Mr. Gopalasamudram
Srinivasaraghavan Sundararajan 
Non-Executive Independent 
Director
Audit  
Committee
Nomination & 
Remuneration 
Committee
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship 
Committee
Risk 
Management 
Committee
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee
Chairman 
Chairman 
Chairperson 
Chairman 
Chairman 
Member  
Member  
Member  
Member  
Member  

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 29
6
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
Letter to Shareholders
Dear Shareholders,
India is at the cusp of the next stage of the smartphone-led revolution. Starting from internet 
connectivity led by smartphones, and that becoming the foundation of the digitally enabled life 
that is now reality. 
Paytm pioneered mobile payments in India and led mass adoption with innovations like QR Codes 
and Soundbox. 
In India, we can expect 500 million payment consumers and 100 million merchants not very far in 
future. This is made possible by Paytm leading from the front, our government’s agenda to drive 
Digital India and the regulator's encouragement to build an open scalable payment system. We are 
not only beneficiaries but also the biggest champions of government and regulator driven Digital 
Public Infrastructure. 
In my opinion, the success of current digital public infrastructure is giving way to new services 
clearly in financial services, and also in new areas like health and retail. 
Paytm’s philosophy is that payment is the truest acknowledgement of trust and transaction assurance 
between two parties. We have kept that as our core offering and built many technologies to enable 
confidence and trust, for e.g., for the small merchants to receive and make mobile payments. 
We are expanding on our success with Paytm Soundbox and have invested heavily in IoT devices. 
We launched Pocket and Music Soundbox enabled by 4G technology. I am particularly proud that 
these are completely designed and made in India. 
I believe India has an opportunity to become a net exporter of payment technology, software and 
hardware, and I expect Paytm to lead the way in this. Our R&D design and software capabilities are 
the best in the world, in which Paytm Labs is constantly building various AI and big data features 
that enhance payment trust, when consumers or merchants use Paytm. 
The true dividend of the payment economy in India will be distribution of small credit at low cost 
leveraging payment relationships with customers. RBI’s Digital Loan Service Provider system aptly 
captures it. Since June 2020, when RBI first came with digital loan disbursement guidelines, we 
have built our business on core principles guided in the circular and refined later on. 
It is my belief that the true economic GDP growth benefit of reaching the last person in the financial 
system will be our success. We have set our mission to enable 500 million Indians to get benefits 
of mainstream economic growth. This begins by enabling them with mobile payments and helping 
extend various other financial services like loan, insurance etc. to them. 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 30
7
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
We have created a successful template in the last 2 years of distributing small digital loans using 
payment relationships with consumers and merchants. Our lending partners own the risk and 
leverage our ability to help them distribute and collect loans. In products where it is viable for them, 
they can of course collect the loans themselves. 
By helping enable digital loan collection on app, we are now creating a small revolution for financial 
inclusion, where a loan of as small as a few hundred rupees can be disbursed and collected at very 
miniscule cost. In India’s Digital revolution after mobile payments, Paytm’s next contribution will be – 
small mobile credit with high credit quality and fully compliant with the regulators guidelines. 
Expectedly this requires sophisticated capabilities in AI and other technologies. I am very proud of 
our Advanced AI capabilities in use and how we are expanding. We are building an India scale AI 
system which will help various financial institutes in capturing possible risks and frauds, while also 
protecting them from new kinds of risks due to advancement in AI. 
Paytm is investing in AI with an eye on building Artificial General Intelligence software stack. We 
believe by building it in India we are not only making our country’s tech capability, also creating 
something that could be leveraged outside India. 
With a disciplined and result oriented approach in all our selected investment areas, we are sure we 
will be able to capitalize and build strong differentiators in the market and in turn a business that 
scales efficiently without linearly adding to costs. 
Having PayPay Japan as a partner and customer adds to our advantage as the system costs are 
shared between two countries. 
Beyond payment and credit disbursement business, I am very excited by possibilities of ONDC – Open 
Network of Digital Commerce, an initiative of Government India. We have seen very encouraging 
early results of the same. 
In my opinion, in the next 3 years you will see some worthy numbers and results of hard work 
put in by the team. Your company’s team remains committed to serve India and build a long term 
profitable business. 
Best,
Vijay Shekhar Sharma
Founder and CEO
Letter to Shareholders

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 31
8
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
Management 
Discussion 
& Analysis

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 32
9
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
Management Discussion 
& Analysis
Macroeconomic overview
Mobile payments in India have grown tremendously in the past few years. We believe that there is 
ample scope to further deepen penetration as customers and businesses are adopting affordable 
and easy-to-use technology.  
We believe these consumers and businesses can be served through world-class, technology-led, 
mobile payment and financial services.
India continues to be one of the fastest growing economies globally, and is expected to grow at 
a CAGR of 7-9% over next five years, according to RedSeer and broker estimates. Key drivers of 
economic growth will be (i) rising consumption, (ii) favourable demographics with a large working 
population, and (iii) growing urbanisation.
Industry overview and Outlook 
Multiple developments over the past few years have helped build India’s payments landscape, be 
it innovations in mobile payments infrastructure, continued regulatory support, or government 
initiatives to push for increased consumer and merchant acceptance. 
Given the increasing shift towards a cashless economy and user preference for transacting via 
smartphones, mobile payments continue to scale rapidly. This is further boosted by the growth 
of mobile commerce and services. As a result, unique online transacting users, transacting for 
services such as online banking, mobile top-ups, in-store payments etc. are expected to grow from 
250-300 million in FY 2021 to 700-750 million by FY 2026(1).
Paytm remains central to the growth of payments across the country. We offer a suite of payment 
solutions to both consumers and merchants. Consumers have a wide variety of use cases on the 
Paytm app, such as bill payments, recharge, adding funds to wallet, money transfers, etc. Paytm 
enables both consumers and merchants to use a variety of payment instruments to make and 
accept payments. This enables merchants to use Paytm app traffic and expand their businesses, 
making for attractive cross-sell opportunities especially in our loan distribution business. 
Non-cash payment methods remain under-penetrated in India, when compared to other countries. 
The value of card transactions (credit card + debit card) remains at c.7% of GDP in FY 2023, lower 
than developed countries which have higher penetration at 30%+ of GDP. Including mobile payments 
such as UPI (P2M only), this ratio is c.18%. As per estimates from brokers, most of Paytm’s TAMs 
are expected to grow at 20%+ CAGR over the next five years. Broker research estimates the digital 
payments TAM in India to be USD 650bn in FY 23 (merchant payments only; cards + UPI), having 
grown at 41% CAGR since FY 17. They forecast India’s payments TAM to grow at a 23% FY 22-30E 
CAGR to reach USD 2.3tn by FY30E.
(1)(Source: The Digital Transformation of Payments and Financial Services in India dated October 23, 2021, prepared by RedSeer).

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 33
10
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
Management Discussion 
& Analysis
By FY 2026, retail lending is expected to be a US$1 tn market, and MSME lending is expected to 
be a US$600 bn market (Source: RedSeer). Across such traditional financial services products, 
India has growth opportunities aided by technology and rising digitization to increase access 
and reach. Industry research estimates that the total BNPL market in India stood at US$3 bn in 
FY 2021, of which US$2 bn was through online channels, while remaining US$1 bn was through 
offline channels. They forecast the BNPL industry to grow at 65% FY 21-26E CAGR to reach US$35 
bn (c.14% of credit spends) by FY 2026E. Of the US$35bn, they estimate online channels to 
constitute US$24 bn and the remainder US$11 bn from offline medium.
Our Business Model
We offer a comprehensive suite of payments services to consumers and merchants and leverage 
our ecosystem to cross-sell high-margin financial services as well as commerce and cloud services.
Our payments business is an important customer and merchant acquisition tool, and in turn, an 
attractive funnel for other businesses such as credit distribution and enabling commerce businesses. 
The large size of our distribution network coupled with data insights from payment and commerce 
businesses, allows us to distribute high-margin financial services such as small ticket credit to our 
consumers and merchants. For consumers and merchants, we offer various lending products, with 
our financial institution partners, such as Paytm Postpaid (BNPL), Personal Loans and Merchant 
Loans.
Payment Services
On our app, consumers can use a wide selection of instruments, such as Paytm Payment Instruments 
like Wallet, Paytm Postpaid (BNPL) as well as third party instruments like cards, net banking to make 
online payments for a variety of use cases. Consumers can also make online payments on third 
party apps and in-store payments through QR codes and devices. 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 34
11
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
Management Discussion 
& Analysis
Average Monthly Transacting Users  
(in Cr)
FY 2019
FY 2020
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
8.2
6.1
4.5
4.0
3.4
On the merchant side of our platform, we help our partners grow their businesses by providing 
solutions that allow them to accept payments through a wide variety of instruments and by deploying 
devices that help receive payments and with reconciliation. We earn about ₹100 to ₹500 per month 
per device.
• Entry level merchants can use a free Mobile QR to accept payments, typically using Paytm 
Payment Instruments or UPI.
• Small retailers can upgrade to Soundbox devices which allow better reconciliation for merchants, 
and generate subscription revenues for us. 
• Our mid-sized and large retailers also use our card machines which enables them to accept 
mobile and card payments, thus generating both MDR as well as subscription revenues for us. 
• For Online and Omni channel merchants we offer a robust payment gateway product allowing 
merchants to reliably accept payments across all channels, From these merchants, we earn 
MDR revenues and platform fee.
The increased adoption of payments use-cases has resulted in our Monthly Transacting Users 
(MTU) growing 27% YoY to 9 crore during Q4 FY 2023. The full year average for MTU was 8.2 crore, 
up 36% from 6.1 crore in FY 2022.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 35
12
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
Management Discussion 
& Analysis
Total Merchant Subscriptions 
(in Lakh)
GMV  
(in H Lakh Cr)
FY 2019
FY 2020
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
68
29
8
2
1
FY 2019
FY 2020
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
13.2
8.5
4.0
3.0
2.3
Driven by increased user and merchant engagement, we witnessed a massive growth in our GMV, 
which for the full year FY 2023 at ₹13.2 Lakh Cr, has grown 55% YoY from ₹8.5 Lakh Cr in FY 2022. 
As at end of the year

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 36
13
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
Management Discussion 
& Analysis
Financial Services
Financial Services business consists of loan distribution (in partnership with lending partners), as 
well as insurance and wealth management offerings. 
Loan Distribution
As part of our loan distribution business, we operate a technology platform with capabilities across 
the entire loan lifecycle including origination, loan management and collection to provide seamless 
credit access to our consumers and merchants through our financial institution partners. Lending 
partners are able to work with Paytm to service a segment that previously did not have access to 
this type of financing. In addition to handling distribution, we also collect loans on behalf of lending 
partners, by leveraging our technological and digital capabilities, which ensures that our collection 
business is a low-cost process. 
Our lending business continues to scale providing attractive upsell revenues. Our lending partners 
disbursed over 4 crore loans through our platform in FY 2023, a 163% growth over FY 2022. The 
value of loans grew 364% to ₹35,378 Cr in FY 2023, from ₹7,623 Cr in FY 2022.
Value of Loans Disbursed  
(in ₹ Cr)
35,378
FY 2023
7,623
FY 2022
1,409
FY 2021

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 37
14
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
Management Discussion 
& Analysis
Commerce and Cloud Services 
To help our merchant partners grow their business by leveraging Paytm’s consumer traffic, we offer 
them services like ability to sell tickets, deals and gift vouchers to customers. In addition, we also 
provide advertising, and loyalty services. In the Commerce business, we generally earn 5-6% take-
rate on GMV.
The distribution of co-branded credit cards falls under our cloud business. As of March 2023, we 
have a total of 589,000 active cards with SBI Card and HDFC Bank. It is noteworthy that 90% of 
customers who obtain a credit card through Paytm remain active users driven by the variety of use 
cases on the Paytm App. This enables us to generate upfront revenue on card activation and receive 
a portion of the interchange fee for the lifetime of the card. We see a strong runway for growth in 
this business, especially given the upsell potential from payments and lending consumers.
Business Update and Outlook
FY 2023 was a strong year for us. In April 2022 we had shared that we will achieve operating 
profitability (i.e EBITDA before ESOP) by September 2023. We were able to achieve this three 
quarters ahead of plan in the quarter ended December 2022. This performance was driven by 
(1) sustained growth in revenues on account of platform expansion and increased monetization; 
(2) better profitability in the payments business as well as increased contribution of high growth, 
high margin businesses such as loan distribution, and (3) disciplined cost management and better 
operating leverage. 
We report our revenue under two lines, (i) Payment and Financial Services, and (ii) Commerce and 
Cloud Services.
Revenue Split by Business 
Segments (FY2021)
Revenue Split by Business 
Segments (FY 2023)
Payment Services
Commerce & Cloud Services
Financial Services
25%
5%
J 693 Cr
J1,981 Cr
J128 Cr 
J2,802 Cr
71%
J4,930 Cr
62%
19%
19%
J1,520 Cr
J1,540 Cr 
J 7,990 Cr

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 38
15
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
Management Discussion 
& Analysis
Total revenue has grown from ₹2,802 Cr in FY 2021 to ₹7,990 Cr in FY 2023, growing at a CAGR of 69%. 
Payments revenue has grown from ₹1,981 Cr in FY 2021 to ₹4,930 Cr in FY 2023, growing at a CAGR of 
58%. Payments business forms 62% of total revenues in FY 2023. 
Revenue from Financial Services & Others have scaled up rapidly at a CAGR of 246% and were ₹1,540 Cr 
in FY 2023, compared to ₹128 Cr in FY 2021. Financial Services & Others now accounts of 19% of total 
revenues in FY 2023. 
Revenue from Commerce and Cloud segment stood at ₹1,520 Cr in FY 2023, growing at a CAGR of 48% 
from ₹693 Cr in FY 2021. This segment is 19% of total revenues in FY 2023. 
Revenue from Payment Services  
(in ₹ Cr)
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
4,930
3,432
1,981
Our revenue from Payment services grew 44% to ₹4,930 Cr in FY 2023 from ₹3,432 Cr in FY 2022. 
This includes revenues from the use cases such as bill payments and top-ups on the Paytm platform. 
These revenues are primarily from, (i) the transaction fee that we charge our merchants based on a 
percentage of GMV, and (ii) consumer convenience fees that we charge our consumers for certain 
types of transactions.  

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 39
16
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
Management Discussion 
& Analysis
We also earn revenues from our comprehensive offerings of online and in-store payment 
acceptance services such as Payment Gateway, All-in-one and Dynamic-QR, POS, and Soundbox. 
These revenues are primarily from, (i) the transaction fee that we charge our merchants based on 
a percentage of GMV and (ii) recurring subscription fees from merchants for certain products and 
services, such as Paytm Soundbox and card machines. 
Payments has two margin drivers - Payments processing and Subscriptions
Our payments business has two distinct margin drivers - payment processing and subscription. In 
payment processing, we make a net margin (i.e, revenues earned from processing payments less 
charges incurred on such transactions) of 7-9 bps on the Gross Merchandise Value (GMV). We earn 
revenues on processing all kinds of payments, including those made with UPI (Unified Payments 
Interface), in the form of incentives from the government. 
Apart from earning revenues on processing payments, we also earn subscription revenue from 
merchants who use our payment devices, such as Soundbox and card machines. As of March 2023, 
our merchant base has grown to 3.4 crore, with deployed payment devices increasing to 68 lakh 
from 29 lakh in FY 2022, thus accelerating our subscription revenues. Merchants use our devices 
not only for accepting payments but also for fraud avoidance and reconciliation services. 
Net Payments Margin
(in ₹ Cr, in bps of GMV)
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
1,970
15bps of GMV
679
8bps of GMV
64
2bps of GMV

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 40
17
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
Management Discussion 
& Analysis
Net Payments Margin, defined as payments revenue (on payment processing as well as subscription 
revenue) less payment processing charges is a key indicator of profitability in this business. 
Payments profitability has improved significantly over the years, with net payments margin growing 
2.9x YoY to ₹1,970 Cr for FY 2023. Improvement in payment profitability is on account of increased 
monetization in the payments business as well as optimization of processing charges. 
Financial Services and Others include revenues that we make from our financial services partners or 
consumers from our financial services offerings, primarily lending. Revenue from financial services 
and others grew 252% to ₹1,540 Cr in FY 2023 from ₹437 Cr in FY 2022, primarily driven by 364% YoY 
growth in the value of loans processed in FY 2023 to ₹35,378 Cr, from ₹7,623 Cr in FY 2022.
Revenue from Financial Services and Others  
(in ₹ Cr)
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
1,540
437
128

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 41
18
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
Management Discussion 
& Analysis
Our revenue from Commerce and Cloud Services grew 38% to ₹1,520 Cr in FY 2023 from ₹1,105 Cr 
in FY 2022. We further split our Commerce and Cloud Services revenues into the following lines, (i) 
Commerce Services and (ii) Cloud Services. 
In commerce services, we generate revenue by levying a transaction fee to our merchant partners 
and/or a convenience fee to our customers, typically linked to a percentage of the transaction value 
of use cases such as ticketing for travel or entertainment and deals. 
In cloud services, we generate revenue by charging our merchant partners a fee (subscription and 
volume linked) for utilizing our cloud and software solutions and our advertising partners, depending 
on the scale and type of campaign. 
Contribution Profit
Driven by improvement in Net Payments Margin and increased share of high margin financial services 
business, our contribution profit grew 160% to ₹3,900 Cr in FY 2023 from ₹1,498 Cr in FY 2022. As a 
% of revenue of operations, our contribution margin was 49% in FY 2023, up from 30% in FY 2022.
Revenue from Commerce and Cloud Services  
(in ₹ Cr)
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
1,520
1,105
693
Commerce and Cloud Services: 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 42
19
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
Management Discussion 
& Analysis
Contribution Profit  
(in ₹ Cr)
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
3,900
1,498
362
EBITDA before ESOP
Our indirect expenses have grown 35% to ₹4,076 Cr in FY 2023 from ₹3,016 Cr in FY 2022. Our 
EBITDA before ESOP increased to (₹176) Cr in FY 2023 from (₹1,518) Cr in FY 2022 with 160% 
growth in our contribution profit and 35% increase in indirect expenses. Our EBITDA before ESOP 
margin (as % of revenue) was (2%) for FY 2023 as compared to (31%) in FY 2022.
EBITDA before ESOP 
(in ₹ Cr)
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
(176)
(2%)
(1,518)
(31%)
(1,655) 
(59%)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 43
20
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
Management Discussion 
& Analysis
Discussion on financial performance with respect to operational performance
in ₹ crores, except percentages
Particulars
FY 2023
FY 2022
FY 2021
Y-o-Y Δ
Revenue from Operations
7,990
4,974
2,802
61%
 
Payments & Financial Services
6,385
3,858
2,109
66%
 
 
Payment Services to Consumers
2,105
1,528
969
38%
 
 
Payment Services to Merchants
2,739
1,892
1,012
45%
 
 
Financial Services and Others
1,540
437
128
252%
 
Commerce & Cloud Services
1,520
1,105
693
38%
 
 
Commerce
615
374
245
65%
 
 
Cloud
905
731
448
24%
 
Other Operating Revenue
86
12
-
615%
Total Direct Expenses
4,090
3,476
2,440
18%
Contribution Profit
3,900
1,498
363
160%
Margin %
48.8%
30.1%
12.9%
1,870 bps
Indirect Expenses (excluding ESOP expense)
4,076
3,016
2,018
35%
% of Revenue
51.0%
60.6%
72.0%
(963) bps
EBITDA (before ESOP expense)
(176)
(1,518)
(1,655)
(88%)
Margin %
(2.2%)
(30.5%)
(59.0%)
2,832 bps
Details of Key Consolidated Financial Ratios
Particulars
FY 2023
FY 2022
FY 2021
Y-o-Y Δ
Debtors Turnover Ratio
7.99
8.17
5.81
(2.2)%
Current Ratio
3.12
3.22
3.43
(3.3)%
Debt-Equity Ratio
0.02
0.02
0.09
9.7%
Operating Profit Margin (%)
(26.5)%
(52.0)%
(69.4)%
49.1%
Net Profit Margin (%)
(22.2)%
(48.2)%
(60.7)%
53.8%
Return on Equity Ratio (%)
(13.1)%
(23.2)%
(23.3)%
(43.6)%
* Interest coverage ratio has not been computed as earnings available for the interest payments are negative for the current and 
previous financial years
* Inventory turnover ratio is not applicable for our business

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 44
21
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
Management Discussion 
& Analysis
Drivers for Growth and Opportunities
Our ecosystem allows us to address large market opportunities: We have built one of the largest 
payments ecosystem in terms of number of consumers and merchants in the country. Customers 
use various payment services that we offer and merchants use us to accept payments and 
grow their business. We also provide financial services through our financial institution partners, 
particularly lending. Payments is a universal need for consumers and merchants, and provides us 
an attractive way of acquiring, retaining and monetising customers and merchants. It continues to 
give us very high engagement, and in addition, we believe we can make substantial revenues and 
profits in payments. Digital distribution of credit is a very large and scalable profit pool in India. Our 
ecosystem allows us to address these multiple large market opportunities at scale and gives us 
multiple growth vectors.
Our network effect creates sustainable advantages for us: We believe that our brand, distribution, 
insights, technology skills, and the scope of our ecosystem give us an advantage to grow our 
business through, (i) cost-effective acquisition of consumers and merchants; (ii) reinforce our 
platform by building higher engagement and stickiness with consumers and merchants; and (iii) 
build high monetisation products at low cost of acquisition.
Our product and technology DNA: Our technology stack is built ground up and integrated across 
all aspects of our ecosystem. We are the only payments company in India that, together with our 
affiliates, owns each layer of the payment stack. This allows us to integrate our payments offering 
seamlessly with other offerings. Similarly, for financial services, our technology infrastructure is built 
on a stack that is owned, controlled and written by us, our respective subsidiaries or associates. 
Our technology ownership and scope of our ecosystem has allowed us (and our associates, and 
financial institution partners) to offer services such as Paytm Wallet, Paytm QR, Paytm Soundbox, 
Gold investments and Fixed Deposit, Paytm Postpaid, Merchant Cash Advance and FASTag. All 
of these products aim to improve the experience of consumers and merchants who use it in our 
ecosystem.
Enabling regulatory environment: In our view, the regulatory environment in India remains 
constructive and supportive of digital payments and financial services. RBI in its Payments Vision 
2025 has reinforced the themes of enabling growth of digital payments across multiple instruments 
including UPI, PPI and cards. Regulatory compliance remains a key focus for us as an organization. 
Internal Control Systems and Risk Management Framework
In a rapidly evolving business, technical and regulatory environment coupled with dynamic consumer 
demands and growing competition, our risk profile is also evolving constantly. Our Company is 
cognizant that effective risk management is core to a sustainable business. We have therefore 
adopted a dynamic risk management framework that functions under the oversight of our Audit 
Committee and Risk Management Committee. 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 45
22
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
Management Discussion 
& Analysis
Anti-money laundering and Counter-terrorism Financing Risk Management: To ensure clean day-
to-day operations, we have instituted comprehensive on-boarding and risk management practices, 
which include appropriate anti-money laundering policies and procedures.
Investments and Acquisitions Risk Management: To ensure that our investments and acquisitions 
are strategically complementary to our business, we have an identified team of professionals who 
manage our portfolio in alignment with the Company’s growth plans.
Business and Operational Risks
Macro economic environment: We continue to monitor and adapt to any macro-economic condition 
that affects our customers and merchants as it could also have an impact on our business. We will 
continue to do all that is necessary and in our control in such scenarios. 
Financial: We continue to focus on improving profitability while making disciplined investments in 
areas such as hiring additional personnel, broadening our marketing and promotional activities, 
and expanding our products and services. There could be growth in expenses as we continue to 
expand our business operations. During the course of the business, we may offer performance 
guarantees or undertakings/indemnity to certain organisations/PSUs in relation to business tenders 
or contracts. In the past, the Company hasn’t observed any material claims on account of issuances 
of such guarantees. 
Pace of technology innovation: We make significant investments to constantly improve the 
scale, stability and functionality of our technology. Failure to maintain best-in-class technology 
infrastructure could harm our business and prospects.
Cybersecurity: Our platform incorporates multiple layers of protection for business continuity and 
to manage cybersecurity risks and data security breaches. We use analytics and machine learning 
to ensure optimum automated fraud detection during transaction processing. Encrypted data 
transmission using security protocols and algorithms ensures confidentiality and prevents leakage 
of confidential customer data. Data and technology infrastructures are vulnerable to cyber attacks, 
as any such incident could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business. 
Regulatory:  We are extremely focussed on ensuring compliance with the statutory and regulatory 
framework, and are continuously strengthening our compliance processes and management depth 
as some of our businesses are subject to a fast evolving regulatory landscape. 
Competition: We consistently invest in enhancing our platform and customer-centric services 
in order to maintain our leadership. Our industry is extremely competitive, and consumers and 
merchants have multiple options. 
Litigation: We have a dedicated team to manage litigation risk and engage external consultants where 
necessary, thereby ensuring minimum impact of materiality. As a Company (or key management) 
we may be subject to legal proceedings, including ongoing litigation in tax, civil or other matters.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 46
23
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
Management Discussion 
& Analysis
Material developments in Human Resources
In FY 2023, we had an average of 32,798 on-roll (29,503 active on-roll) and 1,589 off-roll employees 
worldwide, inclusive of all subsidiaries.(1)We also engage contractors to provide us with a temporary 
workforce. None of our employees are represented by a labour union. We have not experienced any 
work stoppages since our incorporation.
Employee costs (excluding ESOP cost) as a % of revenue, moderated to 29% in FY2023 from 33% 
in FY2022. Our Employee costs (excluding ESOP expense) at ₹2,323 Cr in FY 2023 grew 43% from 
₹1,623 Cr in FY 2022, as we strengthened our sales channel to drive penetration of our high margin 
use cases such as merchant subscriptions and lending. We are also investing in our product and 
technology team to help scale our platform to support the next leg of users and transactions.
Sustainability and Supporting our Community 
In our mission to bring half a billion Indians into the mainstream economy, we are governed by 
our values of serving the community, and maintaining trust while moving fast, responsibly and 
focusing on the underserved and unserved. Not only do we solve for our merchants receiving digital 
payments via various sources, and in turn, engaging more users, but also receive seamless access 
to micro-credit, business payment solutions and wealth management, safely.
Paytm is committed to sustainability and is dedicated to ESG. The company’s sustainability 
efforts include reducing its carbon footprint, promoting financial inclusion, and supporting local 
communities.
Mobile Payments: Paytm has played a significant role in promoting mobile payments and reducing 
the reliance on cash transactions. By providing a seamless and secure mobile payment experience, 
Paytm has contributed to greater financial inclusion and transparency, reducing the environmental 
impact associated with the production and circulation of physical currency. Products like Soundbox 
devices allow better reconciliation for merchants, hence enhancing their trust in digital payments.
Financial Inclusion: Paytm has been instrumental in promoting financial inclusion by providing
access to financial services to individuals who were previously excluded from the formal banking 
system. Through its digital wallet and other services, Paytm has enabled people to store, send, and 
receive money digitally, empowering them economically and reducing inequalities.
Paytm’s commitment to ESG principles goes beyond its business operations. The company actively 
engages in social and environmental initiatives to drive positive change. It supports various social 
causes, including education, healthcare, and disaster relief.
(1)Total onroll active headcount for OCL standalone was 25,959 as of March 2023.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 47
24
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
Management Discussion 
& Analysis
Engaging Users on Social Causes
As one of India’s largest digital platforms, we take pride in being able to mobilize our ecosystem 
participants in times of social and disaster relief. During the year we have continued to raise social 
awareness and raise contributions from our users to aid the Central and State governments, as 
well as independent local bodies, by enabling online payments to their preferred non-governmental 
organization or any other platform. Paytm Foundation also facilitated a fundraising initiative to the 
Odisha Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to help the victims of the Balasore train tragedy. 
International forums for Sustainability
We proudly represent our country on international forums working for sustainability. Since December 
2017, our Founder, Vijay Shekhar Sharma, has been the United Nations Environment Programme’s 
(“UNEP”) Patron for Clean Air, and helps drive greater environmental action and awareness to 
advocate for UNEP’s global #BreatheLife campaign – a major initiative on air quality seeking to 
influence policy and citizen action for a healthy future. During the year, UNEP and Paytm foundation 
have launched a national-level action-oriented forum for India, involving the regulators, national 
& international philanthropic organizations, international development agencies & the corporate 
sector. This forum intends to identify the needs, gaps, and solutions to the problem of air quality in 
India and will ensure project implementation in a structured manner with a yearly action plan.
Our Founder is also on the Advisory Board of the Green Digital Finance Alliance. The Alliance was 
set up to address the potential for digital finance and fintech-powered business innovations to 
reshape the financial system in ways that better align it with the needs of sustainable development.
Laptop Donation - Shikshit Bharat
“Shikshit Bharat” an initiative started to promote education and support the overall development 
of underprivileged children in India. The initiative aims to provide access to quality education, 
infrastructure, and resources to children from economically weaker sections of society. The focus 
of the initiative is on building and establishing computer labs, and other educational facilities like 
e - libraries to create a conducive learning environment for students.
Paytm Foundation donated 160 laptops and created an impact in the lives of more than 2500 
students. These laptops were used to equip children with essential life skills and vocational training, 
empowering them for better opportunities in the future. Encouraged by the success of this initiative, 
we have plans to further expand this initiative, which aims to bridge the digital divide faced in the 
country. 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 48
25
Annual Report 
2023
Corporate Overview
Management Discussion 
& Analysis
Statutory 
Reports

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 49
Annual Report 
2023
26
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
Dear Members,
The Board of Directors (“Board”) hereby submits the 23rd Annual Report on the business and 
operations of One 97 Communications Limited (“Company” or “Our” or “We” or “Paytm”) together 
with the Audited Standalone and Consolidated Financial Statements for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2023 (“FY 2022-23”). Wherever required, the consolidated performance of the Company 
and its subsidiary(ies) has also been provided.
Financial Performance	
The standalone and consolidated financial highlights of the Company’s operations are summarized 
below:
(Amounts in ₹ Million, except earnings per share)
Particulars
 Consolidated 
 Standalone 
 Year ended 
 Year ended 
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Revenue from operations
79,903
49,742
60,277
38,924
Other income
4,097
2,901
3,994
2,830
Total income
84,000
52,643
64,271
41,754
Total expenses
101,304
76,011
82,199
64,561
Loss before share of profit / (loss) 
of associates / joint ventures, 
exceptional items and tax
(17,304)
(23,368)
(17,928)
(22,807)
Share of profit/ (loss) of associates / 
joint ventures
(125)
(459)
-
-
Loss before exceptional items and tax
(17,429)
(23,827)
(17,928)
(22,807)
Exceptional items
-
(24)
(630)
(441)
Loss before tax
(17,429)
(23,851)
(18,558)
(23,248)
Income Tax expense
336
113
-
3
Loss for the year
(17,765)
(23,964)
(18,558)
(23,251)
Other comprehensive Income/ (Loss)
2,082
9,549
(23)
(18)
Total Comprehensive Income/ 
(Loss)
(15,683)
(14,415)
(18,581)
(23,269)
Earnings per equity share of the 
face value ₹ 1 each (Amount in ₹)
Basic
(27)
(38)
(29)
(37)
Diluted
(27)
(38)
(29)
(37)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 50
Annual Report 
2023
27
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
State of the Affairs of the Company / 
Operational Highlights
Your Company achieved rapid growth across 
its payments and financial services businesses 
during FY 2022-23 and we are excited by the 
continued long-term potential for revenue 
growth and profitability. 
Our payments business is our acquisition 
engine which brings customers to our platform. 
We monetize these customers by cross selling 
various financial & commerce services. In India, 
the penetration of consumer credit, especially 
products like personal loans, merchant loans, 
and small ticket consumption credit (Postpaid 
and Credit Card) remains low, providing us with 
ample opportunity for leveraging our platform 
by working with lending partners in distributing 
such products. Device subscriptions offer an 
attractive cross-sell opportunity for merchant 
lending, while postpaid customers are an upsell 
opportunity to personal loans and credit cards. 
We have partnered with large NBFCs, and Banks 
and we continue to focus on the quality of loans 
distributed through our platform.
Key aspects of our Company’s consolidated 
performance during FY 2022-23 are as follows:
• The 
Company 
achieved 
operating 
profitability, i.e., EBITDA before ESOP break 
even, in the second half of FY 2022-23, 
well ahead of guidance of September 2023 
quarter shared in our CEO’s letter dated April 
2022.
• Our average monthly transacting users for 
the quarter ended March 2023 were 90 
million, up by 27% YoY from 71 million for 
the quarter ended March 2022; driven by 
our variety of use cases on offer, as mobile 
payments adoption for consumers and 
merchants in India continues to grow.
• Subscription services for payment devices, 
such as Soundbox and POS machines, is 
also witnessing strong adoption, with 6.8 
million merchants paying us subscriptions as 
of March 2023, more than doubling from 2.9 
million as of March 2022.
• Our loan distribution business, in partnership 
with our lending partners, continues to scale 
with loans amounting to H 35,378 Cr, a YoY 
growth of 364%.
• Gross merchandise volume of payments 
facilitated through our platform for FY 2022-
23 has grown 55% YoY to 13.20 Lakh Crore 
from 8.50 Lakh Crore in FY 2021-22.
The growth of UPI and other mobile payment 
methods presents a wealth of untapped 
opportunities. We are prepared to capitalize 
on these opportunities by bringing innovative 
products to our customers. Since the launch of 
our UPI Lite platform in February 2023, we have 
already on boarded 5.50 million customers. 
National Payments Corporation of India's wallet 
interoperability guidelines will allow full KYC 
Paytm Wallet to be universally acceptable on all 
UPI QRs and online merchants.
Our pioneering innovation, Paytm Soundbox, 
has been groundbreaking for our merchants. 
Our device has seen a rapid adoption across the 
country and played a vital role in empowering 
small and micro-businesses in India. It supports 
11 languages including English and Regional 
Languages. With Paytm Soundbox, we provide 
flexibility and convenience to our merchants 
with support for multiple payment methods 
such as Paytm Wallet, Postpaid, Paytm UPI and 
other BHIM UPI apps, net banking & cards.
During the year under review, we also launched 
a 4G-enabled Soundbox 3.0, a first-of-its-kind 
device that offers the fastest real-time payment 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 51
Annual Report 
2023
28
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
alerts, along with best-in-industry battery 
backup of 7 days. 
We have also pioneered the Paytm Dynamic QR 
that empowers merchants to accept contactless 
and error-free payments from customers using 
the Paytm App as well as any other UPI app. 
While Static QR or the physical code that is 
kept on the shop counter requires customers 
to fill the amount to be paid, Dynamic QR helps 
generate a code with the transaction value, 
giving the merchant full control on the payment. 
A merchant can generate the dynamic QR code 
on their POS devices or smartphones for a 
specific order which helps them keep a record of 
every individual transaction including the order 
ID, specific goods sold among other details. 
This has helped make transactions transparent 
and error-free.
We have also made significant improvements 
on the technology front with the launch of our 
new technology platform in March 2023. The 
new platform is a full stack 100% indigenous 
development. This cutting-edge platform will 
enhance customer experience through better 
success rate, speed and security. The new 
platform makes us future ready with regards 
to volumes as it is capable of carrying out 
10 times more transactions than our current 
scale. We have built new operational risk 
and fraud management systems which are 
equipped to cater to India's payment growth. 
With this platform, Paytm is well placed 
to handle fast growing digital payments 
opportunities in the country.
While our loan distribution business has scaled 
significantly in the last few quarters, our 
penetration level for each product remains low, 
and gives us a long growth runway ahead. As of 
quarter ended March 31, 2023:
• Postpaid penetration is at 4.30% of average 
MTU.
• Personal loans penetration is at 0.90% of 
average MTU.
• Merchant loans penetration is at 5.90% of 
total devices deployed.
Our collections efforts continue to deliver 
good performance, with indicative portfolio 
performance across loan products holding 
up well. We continue to seek growth & upsell 
opportunities as low penetration supports future 
growth potential, while working with our lending 
partners to maintain healthy credit quality.
Dividend	
Pursuant to Regulation 43A of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”), 
the Company adopted the Dividend Distribution 
Policy setting out the broad principles for 
guiding the Board and the management in 
matters relating to declaration and distribution 
of dividend, and the same is available on the 
website of the Company at https://ir.paytm.
com/policies-and-guidelines
As the Company does not have profits for FY 
2022-23 hence, the Board does not recommend 
any dividend for FY 2022-23.
Transfer to Reserves	
During the year under review, the details of 
amount transferred to other reserves (including 
ESOP Reserve), forms part of note no. 11(b) of 
the standalone financial statements and note no. 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 52
Annual Report 
2023
29
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
10(b) of the consolidated financial statements 
of the Company which forms part of the Annual 
Report.
Particulars of Loans, Guarantees or 
Investments
The particulars of loans, guarantees and 
investments as on March 31, 2023 covered 
under Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 
(“Act”) are given in note nos. 5, 6 and 7 of the 
standalone financial statements and note nos. 5 
and 6 of the consolidated financial statements 
which forms part of the Annual Report.
Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint 
Ventures
In order to meet regulatory requirements (such 
as separate independent legal entities e.g. for a 
payments bank, for payment aggregation, and 
also for our overseas marketing cloud business), 
and to support our business needs, including 
those from 3rd party acquisitions integrated 
within the group over time, the Company has 29 
subsidiaries, 10 associates and 3 joint ventures 
in India and abroad as on March 31, 2023. 
There was no change in the status of the said 
subsidiaries, associates & joint ventures during 
the year under review.
Paytm Payments Services Limited (“PPSL”) is the 
material subsidiary of the Company, engaged in 
the business of providing payment aggregator 
services 
and 
payment 
gateway 
services 
in accordance with Reserve Bank of India 
guidelines and to develop infrastructure including 
information technology, handling, facilitating, 
processing and settlement of transactions, 
customer grievances and disputes between 
various parties in accordance with Payments and 
Settlements Systems Act, 2007. The details of 
PPSL are set out in the Corporate Governance 
Report which forms part of the Annual Report.
Pursuant to Section 129(3) of the Act read with 
Rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, 
a statement containing the salient features of 
the financial statements of each subsidiary, 
associate and joint venture in the prescribed 
form AOC-1 is annexed as Annexure I to this 
report. The said statement also provides 
the details of the performance and financial 
position of each subsidiary, associate and joint 
venture.
Copies of the financial statements of the 
subsidiary companies are available on the 
Company’s website at https://ir.paytm.com/
annual-reports. 
In compliance with Regulation 16(1)(c) of 
SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has 
formulated a policy for determining material 
subsidiaries. The said policy is available on the 
website of the Company at https://ir.paytm.
com/policies-and-guidelines.
Utilisation of Proceeds of Initial Public 
Offer (“IPO”)
Pursuant to Regulation 32 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations read with SEBI Master Circular No. 
SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/CIR/P/2023/120 dated July 
11, 2023, the Company confirms that during FY 
2022-23, there was no deviation or variation 
in the utilization of proceeds of the IPO from 
the objects stated in the Prospectus dated 
November 11, 2021.
The Monitoring Agency Reports for such 
utilization are received by the Company from its 
Monitoring Agency on quarterly basis affirming 
no deviation in utilization of the issue proceeds 
from the objects stated in offer documents 
and are submitted to the Stock Exchanges in 
compliance with the aforesaid regulation. Details 
on actual utilization of the Net IPO proceeds are 
given in note no. 39 of the standalone financial 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 53
Annual Report 
2023
30
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
statements and note no. 43 of the consolidated 
financial statements which forms part of the 
Annual Report.
Material Event
Buy-back of Equity Shares
During the year under review, the Company 
successfully completed the Buy-back of its 
equity shares having face value of ₹ 1 (Rupee 
One Only) each in accordance with the provisions 
of the Act, the SEBI (“Buy-back of Securities) 
Regulations, 2018 (“SEBI Buy-back Regulations”) 
and the SEBI Listing Regulations read with the 
Articles of Association of the Company, pursuant 
to which an aggregate of 1,55,66,746 (One 
Crore Fifty-Five Lakh Sixty-Six Thousand Seven 
Hundred and Forty-Six Only) equity shares 
were bought back by the Company utilizing a 
total amount of ₹ 849,83,39,982 (Rupees Eight 
Hundred Forty-Nine Crores Eighty-Three Lakhs 
Thirty-Nine Thousand Nine Hundred and Eighty-
Two Only) (excluding the transaction costs), 
which represents approximately 99.98% of the 
Maximum Buy- back Size. The equity shares 
were bought back at a volume weighted average 
price of ₹ 545.93 (Rupees Five Hundred Forty-
Five and Ninety-Three Paise Only) per equity 
share, excluding the transaction costs.
In accordance with Section 69 of the Act, as at 
March 31, 2023, the Company has created the 
capital redemption reserve of H 16 million equal 
to the nominal value of the equity shares bought 
back as an appropriation from free reserves or 
security premium.
Please refer to note no. 40 of standalone 
financial statements of the Company, which 
forms part of the Annual Report, fully reflecting 
the impact of the said buy-back announced and 
completed during the year under review.
Employees Stock Option Schemes	
The Company grants share-based benefits 
to eligible employees with a view to attract 
and retain talent, align individual performance 
with the Company’s objectives, and promote 
increased participation by them in the growth 
of the Company.
The Company has two Employees Stock Option 
Schemes viz. One 97 Employees Stock Option 
Scheme 2008 (“ESOP 2008”) and One 97 
Employees Stock Option Scheme 2019 (“ESOP 
2019”). After the institution of ESOP 2019 which 
has been effective from September 30, 2019, no 
fresh options have been granted to employees 
under ESOP 2008.
Post IPO of equity shares of the Company, ESOP 
2019 has been ratified, confirmed and amended, 
as per the requirements of 12(1) of the SEBI (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021 (“SEBI SBEB Regulations 
2021”), by the Members of the Company through 
Postal Ballot on February 19, 2022.
A statement containing relevant disclosures 
pursuant to Regulation 14 of the SEBI SBEB 
Regulations 2021 is available on the website of 
the Company at https://ir.paytm.com/agm.
During the year under review, the Company 
issued and allotted 793,549 (Seven Lakhs 
Ninety Three Thousand Five Hundred Forty 
Nine) equity shares to its employees pursuant 
to exercise of vested options by the eligible 
employees under ESOP 2008 and ESOP 2019. 
As on March 31, 2023, the issued, subscribed 
and paid-up capital of the Company stood at ₹ 
633,788,217/- comprising 633,788,217 (Sixty 
Three Crores Thirty Seven Lakhs Eighty Eight 
Thousand Two Hundred Seventeen) equity 
shares of ₹ 1/- each. The equity shares issued 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 54
Annual Report 
2023
31
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
under the said Schemes rank pari-passu with 
the existing equity shares of the Company.
The Company has obtained certificate from 
M/s. PI & Associates, Secretarial Auditors of the 
Company confirming that ESOP 2008 and ESOP 
2019 have been implemented in accordance 
with the SEBI SBEB Regulations 2021 and 
resolution(s) passed by the Members of the 
Company. 
Transactions With Related Parties	
The Company has adopted a Policy on Related 
Party Transactions in compliance with Regulation 
23 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, which is 
available on the website of the Company at 
https://ir.paytm.com/policies-and-guidelines. 
All the transactions with related parties entered 
into by the Company during FY 2022-23 were 
on an arm’s length basis and in the ordinary 
course of business & in the best interest of the 
Company. The said transactions were entered 
into by the Company with the prior approval of 
the Audit Committee.
During the year under review, the Company had 
entered into a material transaction with Paytm 
Payments Bank Limited (“PPBL”) for which prior 
approval of the Audit Committee and Members 
of the Company were obtained. The particulars 
of material contracts/arrangements with related 
parties in Form AOC-2 as required under Section 
134 (3)(h) of the Act, is annexed as Annexure II 
to this report.
For further details of related party transactions 
during the year, please refer to note no. 25 of 
the standalone financial statements and note 
no. 26 of the consolidated financial statements 
which forms part of the Annual Report.
Directors and Key Managerial 
Personnel	
Directors
As on March 31, 2023, the Board comprised 
of 7 (seven) Directors with an appropriate mix 
of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Non- 
Independent 
Directors 
and 
Non-Executive 
Independent Directors in compliance with 
the applicable provisions of the Act and the 
SEBI Listing Regulations. The Board of the 
Company consists of eminent individuals of 
diverse backgrounds with skills, experience 
and expertise in various areas as detailed in 
the Corporate Governance Report, which forms 
part of the Annual Report.
In compliance with the provisions of Section 196, 
203 and Schedule V of the Act, Mr. Vijay Shekhar 
Sharma (DIN: 00466521) was reappointed as 
Managing Director designated as ‘Managing 
Director and Chief Executive Officer’ of the 
Company for a term of 5 (five) years, with effect 
from December 19, 2022 and Mr. Madhur Deora 
(DIN: 07720350) was appointed as Whole Time 
Director designated as ‘Executive Director, 
President and Group Chief Financial Officer’ of 
the Company for a term of 5 (five) years, with 
effect from May 20, 2022. Their reappointment 
and appointment were approved by the Members 
of the Company at the 22nd Annual General 
Meeting (“AGM”) held on August 19, 2022.
Mr. 
Gopalasamudram 
Srinivasaraghavan 
Sundararajan 
(DIN: 
00361030) 
has 
been 
appointed as a Non-Executive Independent 
Director of the Company for a term of 5 (five) 
years with effect from August 29, 2022. His 
appointment was subsequently approved by 
the Members of the Company through a postal 
ballot on November 20, 2022. He is not liable to 
retire by rotation.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 55
Annual Report 
2023
32
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
Mr. 
Mark 
Schwartz 
(DIN: 
07634689) 
completed his tenure as a Non-Executive 
Independent Director of the Company on 
August 30, 2022. The Board places on record 
its appreciation for the contribution made by 
Mr. Schwartz during his tenure as a Director 
on the Board of the Company.
Mr. Douglas Feagin (DIN: 07868696) resigned 
from the position of Non-Executive Non-
Independent Director of the Company with 
effect from February 02, 2023. The Board places 
on record its appreciation for the contribution 
made by Mr. Feagin during his tenure as a 
Director on the Board of the Company.
Subsequently, after closure of FY 2022-23, 
Mr. Vivek Kumar Mathur (DIN: 03581311), 
Alternate 
Director 
to 
Mr. 
Ravi 
Chandra 
Adusumalli (DIN: 00253613), Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director of the Company, has 
resigned with effect from June 30, 2023 as there 
was no requirement for an alternate director to 
Mr. Adusumalli.
Mr. Madhur Deora, Executive Director, President 
and Group Chief Financial Officer, retires by 
rotation and being eligible, offers himself for 
reappointment at the ensuing AGM.
None of the Directors of the Company is 
disqualified to act as a Director as per the 
requirements of Section 164 of the Act.
Key Managerial Personnel
Mr. Amit Khera (ICSI Membership No.: A10827) 
resigned from the position of the Company 
Secretary and Compliance Officer of the 
Company with effect from March 14, 2023.
Ms. Sonali Singh (ICSI Membership No.: A26585), 
was appointed as an Interim Compliance Officer 
of the Company with effect from March 15, 
2023.
Subsequently, after closure of FY 2022-23, the 
Board at its meeting held on July 21, 2023, has 
approved the appointment of Mr. Sunil Kumar 
Bansal (ICSI Membership No.: F4810) as the 
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer of 
the Company with effect from July 21, 2023. 
Consequent to the said appointment, Ms. Sonali 
Singh ceased to be the Interim Compliance 
Officer of the Company with effect from July 21, 
2023. 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 203 of 
the Act, Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Chairman, 
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 
and Mr. Madhur Deora, Executive Director, 
President and Group Chief Financial Officer are 
the Key Managerial Personnel of the Company 
as on March 31, 2023.
Declaration by Independent Directors
The Company has received declarations from all 
the Independent Directors confirming that they 
continue to fulfill the criteria of independence as 
required pursuant to Section 149, 150 read with 
Schedule IV of the Act and Regulation 16 and 25 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations. All Independent 
Directors have affirmed compliance with the 
Code of Conduct for Independent Directors as 
prescribed in Schedule IV to the Act.
Further, in the opinion of the Board, the 
Independent 
Directors 
of 
the 
Company 
possess the requisite expertise and experience 
(including proficiency) and are persons of high 
integrity and repute.
Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”)
In view of the losses incurred by the Company 
during the previous financial years, the Company 
was under no obligation to contribute towards 
CSR activities during FY 2022-23. However, the 
Company had voluntarily undertaken certain 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 56
Annual Report 
2023
33
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
initiatives during the year under review which 
were approved by the CSR Committee. A brief 
outline of the CSR policy of the Company and 
the activities undertaken during the year are set 
out in Annexure III to this Report in the format 
as prescribed in the Companies (Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014.
The CSR Policy as adopted by the Company 
is available on the website of the Company at 
https://ir.paytm.com/policies-and-guidelines
For details regarding the composition and terms 
of reference of the CSR Committee, please refer 
to the Corporate Governance Report, which 
forms part of the Annual Report.
Board Meetings
The Board met 7 (seven) times during FY 2022-
23. The details of the meetings of the Board and 
attendance of the Directors at the Board meetings 
are set out in the Corporate Governance Report, 
which forms part of the Annual Report. The 
intervening gap between two consecutive Board 
meetings was within the period prescribed under 
the provisions of Section 173 of the Act and SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
Board Committees
As on March 31, 2023, the Board had the 
following Committees:
(i) Audit Committee
(ii) Nomination and Remuneration Committee
(iii) Stakeholders Relationship Committee
(iv) Risk Management Committee
(v) Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
(vi) Investment Committee
(vii) IPO Committee
(viii) Buy-back Committee
The details of composition, terms of reference 
and number of meetings held during the year 
and the attendance of the Committee Members 
at each meeting are given in the Corporate 
Governance Report, which forms part of the 
Annual Report.
After the closure of FY 2022-23, the IPO 
Committee and the Buy-back Committee have 
been dissolved by the Board with effect from 
July 21, 2023.
Report on Corporate Governance	
In compliance with Regulation 34 read with 
Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
Report on Corporate Governance of the Company, 
inter alia, covering composition, details of meetings 
of the Board and Committees, together with a 
certificate from M/s. PI & Associates, Secretarial 
Auditors of the Company regarding compliance of 
conditions of Corporate Governance, forms part 
of the Annual Report.
A certificate from the Managing Director & CEO 
and the Executive Director, President & Group 
Chief Financial Officer of the Company in terms 
of Regulation 17 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
inter-alia, confirming the correctness of the 
financial statements and cash flow statements, 
adequacy of the internal control measures and 
reporting of matters to the Audit Committee, 
also forms a part of the Annual Report.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
Pursuant to clause (c) of sub-section (3) of 
Section 134 of the Act, it is confirmed that:
a) in the preparation of the annual accounts, 
the applicable accounting standards had 
been followed along with proper explanation 
relating to material departures;

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 57
Annual Report 
2023
34
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
b) the Directors had selected such accounting 
policies and applied them consistently and 
made judgments and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent so as to give a true 
and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company at the end of FY 2022-23 and of 
the loss of the Company for that period; 
c) the Directors had taken proper and sufficient 
care for the maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the 
provisions of this Act for safeguarding the 
assets of the Company and for preventing 
and detecting frauds and other irregularities;
d) the Directors had prepared the annual 
accounts on a going concern basis;
e) the Directors, had laid down internal financial 
controls to be followed by the Company 
and that such internal financial controls are 
adequate and are operating effectively; and
f) the Directors had devised proper systems to 
ensure compliance with the provisions of all 
applicable laws and that such systems were 
adequate and operating effectively.
Policy 
on 
Appointment 
and 
Remuneration
The Board has framed and adopted a Nomination 
and Remuneration Policy in terms of Section 178 
of the Act and Regulation 19(4) read with Part 
D of Schedule II to the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
for identification, selection and appointment of 
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel (KMPs) 
and Senior Management of the Company. The 
policy lays down the principles related to the 
appointment, cessation and remuneration of 
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and Senior 
Management Personnel of the Company. The 
Policy is available on the website of the Company 
at https://ir.paytm.com/policies-and-guidelines.
Board Evaluation
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, an evaluation process 
was carried out to evaluate performance of 
the Board and its Committees, the Chairman 
of the Board and all Directors, including 
Independent 
Directors. 
The 
questionnaire 
for this evaluation was developed based on 
improvement areas identified last year by the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee. The 
results of evaluation of the Board and its various 
Committees were subsequently discussed at 
their respective meetings and the areas for 
improvement of the functioning of the Board 
and Committees were duly noted.
Business 
Responsibility 
and 
Sustainability Report
In compliance with Regulation 34 of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations read with SEBI Master Circular 
No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/CIR/P/2023/120 dated 
July 11, 2023, the Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report of the Company for FY 
2022-23 describing the various initiatives 
undertaken from an environment, social and 
governance perspective during FY 2022-23 
forms part of the Annual Report.
Management Discussion and Analysis 
Report
The Management Discussion and Analysis 
Report 
for 
FY 
2022-23 
on 
Company’s 
performance, industry trends and other required 
details prepared in compliance with Regulation 
34 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, forms part of 
the Annual Report.
Extract of Annual Return
The Annual Return of the Company in form MGT-
7 as required under Section 92 and Section 134 
of the Act read with Rule 12 of the Companies 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 58
Annual Report 
2023
35
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 
is available on the website of the Company at 
https://ir.paytm.com/agm.
Internal Auditors and Internal Financial 
Controls
The Company has appointed 'M/s. Grant 
Thornton Bharat LLP' (LLP Identification 
No.: 
AAA-7677) 
and 
'M/s. 
Protiviti 
India 
Member 
Private 
Limited' 
(CIN: 
U93000HR2009PTC057389) as Independent 
Joint Internal Auditors under Section 138 of 
the Act for FY 2022-23. The Internal Audit 
Head of the Company supervises the Internal 
Audit function and reports directly to the 
Audit Committee.
Internal Audit function is governed by the 
Internal Audit Charter, Internal Audit scope and 
Internal Audits / reviews outcome are submitted 
and presented in the Audit Committee meetings 
every quarter.
The Company has laid down adequate internal 
financial controls commensurate with the scale 
and size of the operation of the Company. The 
Company has in place adequate policies and 
procedures for ensuring the orderly and effective 
control of its business, including adherence 
to the Company’s policies, safeguarding its 
assets, prevention and detection of frauds and 
errors, the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, and the timely preparation 
of reliable financial disclosures.
The Company has an adequate system of internal 
control commensurate with its size and nature of 
business. These systems provide a reasonable 
assurance in respect of providing financial and 
operational information, safeguarding of assets 
of the Company, adhering to the management 
policies besides ensuring compliance.
Human Resource Management 
and Related Disclosures
Prevention of Sexual Harassment at 
Workplace
The Prevention of Sexual Harassment (“POSH”) 
at Workplace Policy has been formed under the 
provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women 
at 
Workplace 
(Prevention, 
Prohibition 
and 
Redressal) Act, 2013 (“POSH Act”), to prohibit, 
prevent or deter the commission of acts of 
sexual harassment at workplace and to provide 
the procedure for the redressal of complaints 
pertaining to sexual harassment. The Company 
has also constituted an Internal Complaints 
Committee (“ICC”) as per the requirements under 
the POSH Act. The ICC ensures that all cases 
reported are resolved in a timely manner, in 
accordance with the POSH Act. We also conduct 
awareness programs for employees on the policy. 
The Company also make sure to organize several 
virtual seminars on POSH to everyone cognizant 
of the guidelines laid in the policy. The detailed 
disclosure is given in the Corporate Governance 
Report, which forms part of the Annual Report.
The Company has adopted a policy on Prevention 
of Sexual Harassment at Workplace which is 
available on the website of the Company at 
https://ir.paytm.com/policies-and-guidelines. 
During FY 2022-23, number of cases reported 
were as follows:
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
FY 2022-23
Number of 
complaints 
disposed off 
during FY 
2022-23
Number of 
complaints 
pending as on 
end of 
FY 2022-23
5
4*
1**
* Out of the 4 disposed cases, 1 case was withdrawn by the 
complainant.
** The complaint has been closed after March 31, 2023

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 59
Annual Report 
2023
36
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
Particulars of Employees
The 
statement 
containing 
disclosure 
of 
remuneration under Section 197(12) of the 
Act read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014, as amended, is given in 
Annexure IV forming a part of this Report. The 
information as per Rule 5(2) and Rule 5(3) of the 
above-mentioned Rules pertaining to the names 
of top ten employees and other particulars of 
employees is provided in a separate annexure. 
However, as per the provisions of Section 136(1) 
of the Act and the Rules thereunder, the Annual 
Report and the financial statements, excluding 
the aforesaid annexure, are being sent to the 
Members, and other persons entitled thereto. 
Any Member interested in obtaining a copy of 
the same may write to the Company Secretary 
and Compliance Officer at compliance.officer@
paytm.com.
Risk Management
The Company has a robust Risk Management 
Framework to identify and evaluate business 
risks 
and 
opportunities. 
This 
framework 
includes appropriate policies and procedures 
that seek to create transparency, minimize 
adverse impact on the business objectives and 
enhance the Company’s competitive advantage. 
The business risk framework defines the risk 
management approach across the enterprise 
at various levels including documentation and 
reporting. The framework has risk scorecards 
and risk dashboards which help in identifying 
risks trend, exposure and potential impact 
analysis at a Company level and for business 
segments. The Company has identified various 
risks and also has mitigation / monitoring plans 
for each risk identified. The Risk Assessment 
and Management Policy is available on the 
website of the Company at https://ir.paytm.
com/policies-and-guidelines.
The Company’s insurable assets like server, 
computer 
equipment, 
office 
equipment, 
furniture & fixtures etc. have been adequately 
insured against major risks. The Company 
has 
also 
taken 
appropriate 
Directors’ 
& 
Officers’ Liability Insurance Policy to protect 
the Company, Directors and Officers from 
unexpected exigencies. The Risk Management 
Committee of the Board has been constituted 
to periodically review the Risk Management 
Framework and approve the necessary changes 
required therein.
Vigil 
Mechanism/Whistle 
Blower 
Policy
The Company has adopted a Whistle Blower 
Policy / Vigil Mechanism with protective clauses 
for the whistleblowers. The Policy provides 
adequate safeguards against victimisation of 
whistleblowers and provides direct access to 
the Chairperson of the Audit Committee, in 
exceptional circumstances.
The policy provides for a mechanism to 
report concerns about unethical behaviour, 
actual or suspected fraud, instances of leak 
of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information or 
violations of your Company’s Code of Conduct. 
The detailed disclosure is given in Corporate 
Governance Report, which forms part of the 
Annual Report.
The policy is available on the website of the 
Company at https://ir.paytm.com/policies-and-
guidelines.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 60
Annual Report 
2023
37
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
The Foreign Exchange earnings and outgo by 
the Company during FY 2022-23, under review 
is as follows:
 (Amounts in ₹ Million)
Particulars
FY 
2022-23
FY 
2021-22
Foreign Exchange Earnings
308.98
416.75
Foreign Exchange Outgo
4,050.93 5,149.44
Auditors and Auditor’s Report	
Statutory Auditors
M/s. Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants 
LLP, (Firm Registration No. 012754N/N500016), 
were appointed as the Statutory Auditors of 
the Company at the AGM held on September 
28, 2018, for a term of 5 (five) consecutive 
years from the conclusion of 18th AGM till the 
conclusion of 23rd AGM of the Company.
The Report given by the Statutory Auditors 
on the Standalone Financial Statements of 
the Company and the Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Company for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2023, forms part of this 
Annual Report. There have been no qualification, 
reservation, adverse remarks or disclaimer 
given by the Statutory Auditors in their Report 
which calls for any explanation.
In view of the requirement of rotation of the 
Statutory Auditors in accordance with the 
requirements of Section 139 of the Act and on the 
basis of recommendation of the Audit Committee, 
the Board has recommended the appointment of 
M/s. S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP, Chartered 
Accountants (Firm Registration no. 101049W/
E300004) as the Statutory Auditors of the 
Company for a term of 5 (five) consecutive years 
from the conclusion of 23rd AGM till the conclusion 
of 28th AGM of the Company. M/s. S.R. Batliboi 
& Associates LLP have submitted a certificate, 
as required under Section 139(1) of the Act 
confirming that they meet the criteria provided 
in Section 141 of the Act. Their appointment is 
subject to the approval of the Members of the 
Company at the ensuing AGM.
A resolution seeking their appointment forms 
part of the Notice convening the 23rd AGM and 
the same is recommended for consideration 
and approval of the Members of the Company.
Secretarial Auditors
M/s. PI & Associates, firm of Practicing 
Company Secretaries (Firm Registration No.: 
P2014UP035400), carried out the Secretarial 
Audit for FY 2022-23 in compliance with the 
Act and the Rules made thereunder, the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, as Secretarial Auditors of 
the Company for FY 2022-23. The Secretarial 
Auditors’ Report is enclosed as Annexure V to 
this report.
In compliance with Regulation 24A of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, the Secretarial Audit Report 
of PPSL, a material subsidiary of the Company 
for FY 2022-23 issued by M/s. PI & Associates, 
Practicing Company Secretaries is enclosed as 
Annexure VI to this report.
The Secretarial Audit Report of the Company 
and its unlisted material subsidiary does not 
contain any qualification, reservation, adverse 
remark or disclaimer.
Conservation 
of 
Energy 
And 
Technology Absorption
The Company’s operations are not energy 
intensive. 
However, 
the 
Company 
has 
implemented 
various 
energy 
conservation 
measures, such as adopting good practices in all 
major offices for energy conservation like the use 
of LED lights, ban on one-time use plastic, energy-

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 61
Annual Report 
2023
38
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
efficient appliances, sensor-based water faucets 
and sensor-based lighting systems in toilets. The 
corporate office building of the Company is an 
Indian Green Building Council Platinum certified 
building and is primarily focused on developing 
sustainable sites, increased water and energy 
efficiency, reduced waste and emissions, use of 
eco-friendly building materials, and improving 
indoor environmental quality more efficiently 
than conventional designs like energy-efficient 
windows, 
LED 
lighting, 
energy-efficient 
appliances, geothermal heat pumps, energy-
efficient insulation etc.
In most of our facilities, VRV/VRF air-conditioned 
systems are installed that are second generation 
energy efficient products. We have also installed 
VAV controllers in all meeting rooms & floors 
to maintain the required cooling as per floor 
occupancy, which ultimately reduces the overall 
load of the air handling unit and chiller. Heat 
resistant facade glasses have been installed 
all across the building that restricts the heat & 
maintains the temperature on the floor, which 
also facilitates the natural light throughout 
the day. All electrical appliances that we are 
sourcing for the office are 5* (star) rated for 
higher energy efficiency. We have a BMS 
building management system for controlling 
and monitoring energy conservation.
The other conservation measures undertaken by 
the Company during FY 2022-23 are mentioned 
in the Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report, which forms part of the Annual Report.
Update on Technology Absorption
Paytm has been at the forefront of India’s digital 
revolutions with its technology-led innovations 
that have empowered users with a ‘Made in 
India’ payments platform.
During FY 2022-23, we launched our new 
technology platform that is built with 100% 
indigenous developed technology. With this, we 
have taken another step towards ‘Atmanirbhar 
Bharat’ to promote digital payments in the 
country. This platform aims to significantly 
enhance consumer experience through a much 
better success rate, speed and security. The 
massive upgrade of our payment’s platform 
through an indigenous full-stack development 
will further boost digital payments in the country.
The platform has been revamped, ensuring that 
the previous technology platform is upgraded 
with new-age tech solutions that are locally 
built and supported in-house. With a world-
class platform that can handle 10X of the current 
scale, we have set a gold standard for fintech’s, 
aimed at handling fast growing digital payments 
opportunities in the country. We have been 
investing heavily in India’s mission of building a 
trillion-dollar digital economy.
The details on our expenses linked to 
strengthening and expanding our technology 
powered payments platform, are provided 
in note no. 4 of the standalone financial 
statements, which forms part of Annual Report.
The other details of our technology-led 
innovation are mentioned in the Management 
Discussion and Analysis Report, which forms 
part of the Annual Report.
The details on benefits and savings from our 
technology are mentioned in the Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report, which 
forms part of the Annual Report.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 62
Annual Report 
2023
39
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
Awards and Recognitions
During FY 2022-23, the Company received 
multiple awards and recognition. Details in 
respect of such awards and recognition received 
by the Company are available on the website of 
the Company at https://ir.paytm.com/awards.
Secretarial Standards	
The Company complies with all applicable 
secretarial standards issued by the Institute 
of Company Secretaries of India in terms of 
Section 118(10) of the Act.
Other Statutory Disclosures
No disclosure or reporting is made with respect 
to the following items, as there were no 
transactions during FY 2022-23:
• The issue of equity shares with differential 
rights as to dividend, voting or otherwise;
• Issue of equity shares (including sweat 
equity shares) to employees of the Company 
under any scheme except Employees’ Stock 
Options Schemes referred to in this Report;
• In terms of the provisions of Section 73 of the 
Act read with the relevant Rules of the Act, the 
Company had no opening or closing balances 
and also has not accepted any deposits 
during the financial year under review and as 
such, no amount of principal or interest was 
outstanding as on March 31, 2023;
• No fraud under Section 143 (12) of the Act 
has been reported by the Auditors to the 
Audit Committee or the Board or Central 
Government;
• The Company does not have any scheme or 
provision of money for the purchase of its 
own shares by employees or by trustees for 
the benefits of employees;
• There is no proceeding pending under the 
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016;
• There 
was 
no 
instance 
of 
one-time 
settlement with any Bank or Financial 
Institution;
• Executive Directors of the Company have not 
received any remuneration or commission 
from any of its subsidiaries;
• There was no revision in the financial 
statements;
• There was no change in the nature of 
business;
• There were no material changes and 
commitments affecting financial position 
of the Company between the end of the 
financial year and the date of this report;
• There are no significant or material orders were 
passed by the regulators or courts or tribunals 
which impact the going concern status of the 
Company and its operations in future;
• The Company is not required to maintain cost 
records under Section 148 of the Act; and
• The Company has not made any downstream 
investments during the year under review and 
hence a certificate under FEMA is not required.
• There was no instance wherein the Company 
failed to implement any corporate action 
within the statutory time limit.
Cautionary Statement	
Statements in this Annual Report describing 
the Company’s objectives, expectations or 
predictions may be forward-looking within 
the meaning of applicable securities laws and 
regulations. Actual results may differ materially 
from those expressed in the statement.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 63
Annual Report 
2023
40
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
Acknowledgement	
The Board is grateful for the continued support provided by our valued customers, investors, 
government, regulatory authorities and other stakeholders. The Board appreciates the hard work 
and exemplary dedication of the employees of our Company for showing remarkable teamwork 
during FY 2022-23.
 
For and on behalf of the Board
One 97 Communications Limited
Vijay Shekhar Sharma
Date: July 21, 2023 
Chairman, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Place: New Delhi 
DIN: 00466521

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 64
Annual Report 
2023
41
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
Annexure I
AOC-1
SALIENT FEATURES OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF SUBSIDIARY / ASSOCIATE / JOINT VENTURE AS PER COMPANIES ACT, 2013
Part A: Subsidiaries
(₹ in million)
S.
No.
Name of 
Subsidiary 
Company
Reporting 
Period
Reporting 
Currency/ 
Exchange
rate
Share capital
Reserve & 
Surplus
Total Assets
Total Liabilities
Investments*
Turnover#
Profit/(Loss) 
before Taxation
Provision for 
Taxation
Profit/(Loss) 
After Taxation
%
shareholding 
1
One 97 
Communications 
India Limited 
April to 
March
INR
 831.50 
 90.41 
 950.34 
 28.43 
 844.04 
 40.40 
 35.03 
 7.78 
 27.25 
100%
2
Paytm 
Entertainment 
Limited
April to 
March
INR
 788.74 
 1,509.28 
 2,300.85 
 2.83 
 1,397.52 
 44.01 
 41.29 
 10.41 
 30.88 
100%
3
Paytm Money 
Limited
April to 
March
INR
 2,588.70 
 -1,642.02 
 3,216.65 
 2,269.97 
 179.07 
 1,328.03 
 427.68 
 - 
 427.68 
100%
4
Mobiquest 
Mobile 
Technologies 
Private Limited
April to 
March
INR
 3.61 
 -22.48 
 152.66 
 171.53 
 - 
 296.27 
 -81.36 
 - 
 -81.36 
66.34%
5
Wasteland 
Entertainment 
Private Limited
April to 
March
INR
 0.52 
 41.38 
 1,617.00 
 1,575.10 
 - 
 1,927.30 
 -192.30 
 - 
 -192.30 
100%
6
Urja Money 
Private Limited
April to 
March
INR
 31.16 
 -66.96 
 58.78 
 94.59 
 1.00 
 79.56 
 -13.91 
 - 
 -13.91 
83.34%
7
Little Internet 
Private Limited
April to 
March
INR
 223.83 
 -367.63 
 2.61 
 146.40 
 - 
 36.92 
 -2.45 
 - 
 -2.45 
62.53%
8
Orbgen 
Technologies 
Private Limited
April to 
March
INR
 9.75 
 111.15 
 228.86 
 107.97 
 - 
 155.87 
 -45.75 
 - 
 -45.75 
100%
9
Paytm Payment 
Services Limited
April to 
March
INR
 500.00 
 786.48 
 18,026.50 
 16,740.02 
 450.95 
 20,674.21 
 156.93 
 102.90 
 54.03 
100%
10
Paytm Insurance 
Broking Private 
Limited
April to 
March
INR
 750.00 
 -486.27 
 281.43 
 17.71 
 - 
 87.95 
 -93.29 
 - 
 -93.29 
100%

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 65
Annual Report 
2023
42
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
Part A: Subsidiaries
(₹ in million)
S.
No.
Name of 
Subsidiary 
Company
Reporting 
Period
Reporting 
Currency/ 
Exchange
rate
Share capital
Reserve & 
Surplus
Total Assets
Total Liabilities
Investments*
Turnover#
Profit/(Loss) 
before Taxation
Provision for 
Taxation
Profit/(Loss) 
After Taxation
%
shareholding 
11
Paytm Services 
Private Limited
April to 
March
INR
 30.00 
 28.70 
 262.75 
 204.05 
 - 
 1,947.67 
 7.12 
 19.75 
 -12.63 
100%
12
Xceed IT 
Solutions Private 
Limited
April to 
March
INR
 0.50 
 0.02 
 0.59 
 0.08 
 - 
 0.01 
 -0.01 
 - 
 -0.01 
66.34%
13
Nearbuy India 
Private Limited 
April to 
March
INR
 9.00 
 -107.02 
 64.31 
 162.32 
 - 
 167.43 
 63.34 
 - 
 63.34 
62.53%
14
Fincollect 
Services Private 
Limited 
April to 
March
INR
 1.00 
 -19.34 
 388.22 
 406.56 
 - 
 829.04 
 5.95 
 - 
 5.95 
83.34%
15
One97 
Communications 
Nigeria Limited
April to 
March
NGN / 
0.1778
 2.96 
 -160.30 
 59.37 
 216.71 
 - 
 9.40 
 -14.97 
 3.04 
 -18.02 
100%
16
One97 
Communications 
FZ-LLC
April to 
March
AED / 
22.3645
 20.85 
 82.63 
 287.71 
 184.23 
 - 
 114.83 
 3.55 
 - 
 3.55 
100%
17
One97 
Communications 
Rwanda Private 
Limited
April to 
March
RWF / 
0.0734
 12.09 
 -9.52 
 2.57 
 - 
 - 
 1.05 
 0.41 
 - 
 0.41 
100%
18
One97 
Communications 
Tanzania Private 
Limited
April to 
March
TZS / 
0.035
 54.61 
 -5.15 
 120.77 
 71.31 
 - 
 85.47 
 -5.12 
 10.97 
 -16.10 
100%
19
One97 
Communications 
Bangladesh 
Private Limited
July to 
June
BDT / 
0.7587
 4.34 
 102.88 
 193.23 
 86.01 
 - 
 24.14 
 9.69 
 0.51 
 9.18 
70%
20
One97 Ivory 
Coast SA
January to 
December
XOF / 
0.1362
 1.25 
 -5.00 
 0.52 
 4.28 
 - 
 - 
 -0.06 
 - 
 -0.06 
100%
21
One97 Benin SA
January to 
December
XOF / 
0.1362
 1.28 
 -10.96 
 23.21 
 32.89 
 - 
 -0.25 
 9.15 
 2.07 
 7.08 
100%
22
One97 Uganda 
Limited
April to 
March
UGX / 
0.0216
 25.90 
 -28.96 
 2.23 
 5.30 
 - 
 -0.22 
 -7.56 
 -2.25 
 -5.32 
100%

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 66
Annual Report 
2023
43
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
Part A: Subsidiaries
(₹ in million)
S.
No.
Name of 
Subsidiary 
Company
Reporting 
Period
Reporting 
Currency/ 
Exchange
rate
Share capital
Reserve & 
Surplus
Total Assets
Total Liabilities
Investments*
Turnover#
Profit/(Loss) 
before Taxation
Provision for 
Taxation
Profit/(Loss) 
After Taxation
%
shareholding 
23
One97 
Communications 
Singapore 
Private Limited
April to 
March
SGD / 
61.8296
 272.06 
 11,842.57 
 12,151.55 
 36.91 
 12,100.22 
 23.40 
 -76.03 
 0.08 
 -76.11 
100.00%
24
Paytm Labs Inc.
April to 
March
CAD / 
60.654
 311.05 
 933.86 
 1,606.08 
 361.17 
 - 
 1,910.08 
 325.48 
 197.64 
 127.83 
100%
25
One97 USA Inc.
January to 
December
USD / 
82.1533
 34.76 
 -2.60 
 46.81 
 14.66 
 - 
 278.38 
 17.14 
 -0.32 
 17.46 
100%
26
One 97 
Communications 
Malaysia Sdn. 
Bhd.
April to 
March
MYR / 
18.5654
 1.53 
 4.73 
 78.95 
 72.69 
 - 
 17.72 
 -28.33 
 -7.48 
 -20.84 
100%
27
One 97 
Communication 
Nepal Private 
Limited
Shrawan 
to Ashad 
(16 July to 
15 July)
NPR / 
0.6173
 3.23 
 14.68 
 132.62 
 114.71 
 - 
 38.92 
 9.48 
 1.58 
 7.90 
100%
28
One Nine Seven 
Digital Solutions 
Ltd
January to 
December
KES / 
0.6169
 3.54 
 -0.05 
 6.12 
 2.62 
 - 
 3.39 
 -0.38 
 0.32 
 -0.70 
100%
29
One Nine Seven 
Communications 
Saudi Arabia For 
Communication 
and Information 
Technology
January to 
December
SAR / 
21.877
 11.01 
 -13.22 
 4.99 
 7.20 
 - 
 0.36 
 -6.13 
 - 
 -6.13 
100%
* Investments are net off impairment
# Turnover including other income
None of the above mentioned Companies have proposed dividend in the Current financial year.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 67
Annual Report 
2023
44
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
Part B: Associates and Joint Venture
Statement pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013 related to Associate Companies and Joint Ventures
S.
No.
Name of Associate / Joint venture 
Company
Paytm 
Payments Bank 
Limited
Paytm Financial 
Services 
Limited
Paytm General 
Insurance 
Limited**
Paytm Life 
Insurance 
Limited**
First Games Technology 
Private Limited (formerly 
known as Paytm First 
Games Private Limited)
Admirable 
Software 
Limited
1
Latest audited / (unaudited) Balance 
Sheet Date
31-03-2023
Audited
31-03-2023 
Audited
31-03-2023 
Unaudited
31-03-2023 
Unaudited
31-03-2023 Audited
31-03-2023 
Audited
2
Shares of Associate/Joint Ventures held by the company on the year end
No.
195,904,900
2,000,000
980,000
49,000
68,233,850
Not Applicable#
Amount of Investment in Associates/
Joint Venture*
INR 1,959 
million
INR 20 million
INR 9.8 million
INR 0.5 million
INR 1,398 million
Not Applicable#
Extend of Holding%
49.00%
48.78%
49.00%
49.00%
55.00%
48.78%
3
Description of how there is significant 
influence
Holding >20% 
of shareholding
Holding >20% 
of shareholding
Holding >20% of 
shareholding
Holding >20% of 
shareholding
Joint Control
Holding >20% 
of shareholding
4
Reason why the Associate/ Joint 
Venture is not consolidated 
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
Equity accounting 
as per IndAS-28
Equity accounting as per 
IndAS-28
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
5
Networth attributable to Shareholding 
as per latest audited/unaudited Balance 
Sheet
INR 2,543.29 
million
INR 207.68 
million
Nil
INR  0.04 million
Nil
INR 137.84 
million
6
Profit/(Loss) for the year (Share of Group)
(i) Considered in Consolidation
INR 24.38 
million
INR 117.03 
million
Nil
INR (0.25) million
INR (133) million
INR 123.59 
million
 (ii). Not Considered in Consolidation
Not Applicable
Not Applicable INR 10.53 million
Not Applicable
Nil
Not Applicable

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 68
Annual Report 
2023
45
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
Part B: Associates and Joint Venture
S.
No.
Name of Associate / Joint venture 
Company
Paytm 
Insuretech 
Private Limited
Foster Payment 
Networks 
Private 
Limited**
Infinity 
Transoft 
Solutions 
Private Limited
Eatgood 
Technologies 
Private Limited
First Games 
Singapore Pte. 
Ltd. (formerly 
known as 
Paytm First 
Games 
Singapore Pte. 
Ltd.)**
Paytm 
Technology 
(Beijing) Co, 
Ltd
Socomo 
Technologies 
Private Limited
1
Latest audited / (unaudited) Balance 
Sheet Date
31-03-2023 
Audited
31-03-2023 
Audited
31-03-2023 
Unaudited
31-03-2023 
Unaudited
31-03-2023 
Unaudited
31-03-2023 
Audited
31-03-2023 
Unaudited
2
Shares of Associate/ Joint Ventures held by the company on the year end
No.
2,560,938
Not Applicable^
3,618 CCPS
2,879 equity 
shares/ 
72,373 CCPS
Not 
Applicable^^
Not 
Applicable^^
28,800 CCPS
Amount of Investment in Associates/ 
Joint Venture*
Nil
Not Applicable^ INR 100 million
INR 242 million
Not 
Applicable^^
Not Applicable
Nil
Extend of Holding%
32.45%
48.80%
26.57%
23.24%
55.00%
55.00%
12.75%
3
Description of how there is significant 
influence
Holding >20% 
of shareholding
Holding >20% 
of shareholding
Holding >20% 
of shareholding
Holding >20% 
of shareholding
Holding >20% 
of shareholding
Holding >20% 
of shareholding
Representation 
on the board 
of directors 
or equivalent 
governing body 
of the investee
4
Reason why the Associate/ Joint 
Venture is not consolidated 
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
5
Net worth attributable to Shareholding 
as per latest audited/unaudited 
Balance Sheet
INR 14.75 
million
INR  263.23 
million
Nil
Nil
INR 2.37 million
INR 11.24 
million
Nil

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 69
Annual Report 
2023
46
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
Part B: Associates and Joint Venture
S.
No.
Name of Associate / Joint venture 
Company
Paytm 
Insuretech 
Private Limited
Foster Payment 
Networks 
Private 
Limited**
Infinity 
Transoft 
Solutions 
Private Limited
Eatgood 
Technologies 
Private Limited
First Games 
Singapore Pte. 
Ltd. (formerly 
known as 
Paytm First 
Games 
Singapore Pte. 
Ltd.)**
Paytm 
Technology 
(Beijing) Co, 
Ltd
Socomo 
Technologies 
Private Limited
6
Profit/Loss for the year (Share of Group)
(i) Considered in Consolidation
Nil
INR 8.70 million INR 0.11 million
INR (5.04) 
million
INR (0.37) 
million
INR (9.70) 
million
Nil
(ii) Not Considered in Consolidation
INR (0.12) 
million
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
*Investments are net off Impairment  
 
 
 
 
**These companies are yet to commence operations  
 
 
 
# Shares are held by an associate company of the Group i.e. Paytm Financial Services Limited  
 
 
 
^Shares are held by two associate companies of the Group i.e. Paytm Financial Services Limited and Paytm Payments Bank Limited 
 
 
 
 
^^Shares are held by a Joint Venture of the Group, i.e. First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
For and on behalf of Board of 
One 97 Communications Limited
Vijay Shekhar Sharma	
	
Madhur Deora
Chairman, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 
Executive Director, President and Group Chief Financial Officer
DIN: 00466521 
 
DIN: 07720350
Place: New Delhi 
 
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 5, 2023 
 
Date: May 5, 2023

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 70
Annual Report 
2023
47
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
Annexure II
FORM NO. AOC 2
(Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of Section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Form for disclosure of particulars 
of contracts/arrangements entered 
into by the Company with related 
parties referred to in sub-section (1) 
of Section 188 of the Companies Act, 
2013 including certain arm’s length 
transactions 
under 
third 
proviso 
thereto.
1.	 Details of contracts or arrangements or 
transactions not at arm's length basis
 
All arrangements/ transactions entered into 
by the Company with its related parties 
during the year were in the ordinary course 
of business and on an arm’s length basis.
2.	 Details 
of 
material 
contracts 
or 
arrangement or transactions at arm's 
length basis
	
(a)	Name(s) of the related party and nature 
of relationship
 
 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited (PPBL) 
is an associate of the Company. The 
Company holds 49% of the paid-up 
share capital (directly and through its 
subsidiary) of PPBL.
	
(b)	Nature 
of 
contracts/arrangements/
transactions
 
 
Availing of Services: - Payment Solutions 
Services, 
Gratification 
services, 
procurement of fast tags, purchase/lease 
of assets/equipment and other banking 
and related services.
 
 
Rendering of Services: - 
Payment 
Gateway Services, Agent Institution 
for Bharat Bill Payment System (BBPS), 
Technology 
Services, 
Branding/
Intellectual Property, Advertising and 
Promotion 
services, 
VAS 
services, 
distribution of toll fastag sale/lease/
exchange 
of 
assets/equipment, 
reimbursement of expenses including 
reimbursement for ESOP Granted to PPBL 
Employees, incentive sharing (for digital 
transactions) other services including 
providing non-financial guarantee, in the 
ordinary course of business.
	
(c)	Duration 
of 
the 
contracts/
arrangements/transactions
 
 
Generally, these are long-term contracts 
for a duration ranging from 1 to 5 years.
	
(d)	Salient terms of the contracts or 
arrangements or transactions including 
the value, if any:
 
 
(i) Both the parties shall diligently 
perform 
their 
duties/obligation 
under the Contract and provide the 
services in timely manner and in 
accordance with the terms of the 
work order/agreement;
 
 
(ii) Both the parties shall submit invoices 
on timely basis for the services 
provided to each other in accordance 
with the terms of arrangement and 
shall promptly pay the same;

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 71
Annual Report 
2023
48
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
 
 
(iii) Both the parties shall be responsible 
for maintaining data confidentiality 
and put in place
 
 
(iv) adequate systems to safeguard data 
and information; and
 
 
(v) Both parties shall comply with the 
requirements of local laws and 
Regulations.
 
 
For the value of the transactions refer 
to the Related Party Disclosure in the 
financial statements, which forms part of 
the Annual Report.
 
(e)	Date(s) of approval by the Board, if any:
 
 
The 
aforesaid 
transactions, 
on 
the 
recommendations of Audit Committee, 
were approved by the Board on February 
23, 2022 and were subsequently approved 
by the Members of the Company through 
Postal Ballot on March 26, 2022. During FY 
2022-23, the aforesaid transactions, on 
the recommendations of Audit Committee, 
were again reviewed & approved by 
the Board on February 3, 2023 and 
subsequently approved by the Members 
of the Company through Postal Ballot on 
March 23, 2023 for a period of 1 year.
 
 
Further, 
the 
aforesaid 
contracts/ 
arrangements entered into with PPBL are 
in the ordinary course of business and on 
an arm's length basis.
	
(f)	 Amount paid as advances, if any:
 
 
Refer Related Party Disclosure in the 
financial statements, which forms part of 
the Annual Report.
 
For and on behalf of the Board
One 97 Communications Limited
Vijay Shekhar Sharma
Place: New Delhi 
Chairman, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Date: July 21, 2023 
DIN: 00466521

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 72
Annual Report 
2023
49
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
Annexure III
Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility activities for FY 2022-23
1.	 Brief outline on Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Policy of the Company
 
One 97 Communications Limited (“Company”) believes in combining the power of technology to 
build an inclusive culture and lays a greater emphasis on the growth as well as social welfare of 
the communities in which we live and work.
 
The Company invests in various CSR initiatives through Paytm Foundation a philanthropic arm 
of the Company with the aim to create opportunities for the marginalized communities by 
facilitating quality education, creating financially inclusive society, promoting a healthy society, 
focusing on environment and sustainability and lastly, empowering women.
 
The CSR Policy has been formulated in terms of provisions of Section 135(4) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (“Act”) read with Rule 6 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) 
Rules, 2014, as amended which has been approved by the Board.
 
As per CSR policy, the Company shall undertake CSR initiatives / projects / programmes as 
specified in Schedule VII of the Act as amended, at the various work‐centers and locations of 
the Company.
2.	 Composition of CSR Committee:
S.
No.
Name of Director
Designation/
Nature of Directorship 
Number of 
meetings of CSR 
Committee held 
during the year
Number of 
meetings of 
CSR Committee 
attended during 
the year
1.
Mr. Vijay Shekhar 
Sharma*
Chairman, Managing Director 
& Chief Executive Officer
Refer note below
2.
Mr. Ravi Chandra 
Adusumalli
Member (Non-Executive Non-
Independent Director)
3.
Mr. Gopalasamudram 
Srinivasaraghavan 
Sundararajan
Member (Non-Executive 
Independent Director)
 
Note: During the year under review, no CSR Committee meeting was held. However, the CSR Committee through circulation 
approved voluntary contribution of up to H 10 crores to Paytm Foundation, a philanthropic arm of the Company, to contribute 
/ donate in the areas specified under Section 135 & 181 of the Act. The said contribution was in accordance with the approval 
obtained from the Members of the Company at their Annual General Meeting held on August 19, 2022. 
 
*Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma is also the Chairman of the CSR Committee.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 73
Annual Report 
2023
50
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
3.	 Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR Committee, CSR Policy and 
CSR Projects approved by the Board are disclosed on the website of the 
company:
 
The details of composition of CSR Committee, CSR Policy and CSR Projects are available in the 
Investor Relation Section at https://ir.paytm.com/
4.	Provide the details of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in 
pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the report): 
Not Applicable
5.	 Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 
7 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and 
amount required for set off for the financial year, if any:
S.
No.
Financial Year
Amount Available for set-off from 
preceding financial years (in Rs)
Amount required to be set-off for 
the financial year, if any (in Rs)
NIL
6.	 Average net profit of the company as per Section 135(5):
 
Not Applicable since the average net profit of last three financial years is Negative.
7.	 (a) Two percent of average net profit of the company as per Section 135(5): NIL
	
(b) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial 
years: NIL
	
(c) Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any: NIL
	
(d) Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b- 7c): NIL
8.	 (a)	CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year: 
Total Amount Spent 
for the Financial 
Year (in ₹)
Amount Unspent (in ₹)
Total Amount transferred 
to Unspent CSR Account as 
per section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified 
under Schedule VII as per second proviso 
to section 135(5)
Amount
Date of 
transfer
Name of the 
Fund
Amount
Date of 
transfer
Not Applicable*
 
*While CSR spending is not applicable for the Company for the financial year 2022-23, however. the Company has voluntarily 
contributed to Paytm Foundation, a philanthropic arm of the Company for carrying out one or more of the Corporate Social 
Responsibility activities listed in Schedule VII of the Act and or any other charitable activities under Section 181 of the Act for 
an aggregate amount of H10 Crores (Rupees Ten Crores only)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 74
Annual Report 
2023
51
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
	
b)	 Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
S.
No.
Name 
of the 
project
Item from the 
list of activities 
in Schedule VII 
to the Act
Local area 
(Yes /No)
Location of 
the project
Project 
duration
Amount 
allocate d for 
the project 
(in J)
Amount 
spent in 
the current 
financial 
Year 
(in J)
Amount transferred to 
Unspent CSR Account 
for the project as per 
Section 135(6) (in J)
Mode of 
Implemen 
tation - 
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of 
Implementation 
- Through 
Implementing Agency
State District
Name
CSR 
registration 
number
NIL*
NIL*
 
 
*During the year under review, the projects undertaken by Paytm Foundation out of the contribution / donation made by the Company 
are given below:
S. 
No.
Name of the project & description
Item from the list of 
activities in Schedule 
VII to the Act
Location of 
the project
Project 
duration
Implementing 
Partner
Amount 
spent  
(J in Million)
1.
Laptop Donation drive Project Purpose - To bridge digital gap and 
promote digital education
Activity - Distribution of new 150 laptops and dongles for education, 
research, digital
skilling and overall growth of rural students
Education 
(Strengthening 
rural education and 
promoting digital 
skilling)
PAN India
1 Year
Act to 
Transform 
Foundation
5.94
2.
Laptop donation: Shikshit Bharat
Project Purpose - To bridge digital gap and promote digital education.
Activity - Donation of used laptops to underprivileged students of 
Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh
Education 
(Strengthening 
education among 
underprivileged 
students and promoting 
digital skilling)
Uttar 
Pradesh
1 Year
Aavishkar 
Yatraa
0.03

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 75
Annual Report 
2023
52
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
S. 
No.
Name of the project & description
Item from the list of 
activities in Schedule 
VII to the Act
Location of 
the project
Project 
duration
Implementing 
Partner
Amount 
spent  
(J in Million)
3.
Tamil Nadu Technology (iTNT) Hub
Project Purpose - An initiative in collaboration with Tamil Nadu 
government focusing on skill development.
Activity - iTNT with the aim to enable India to become one of the 
top global innovation hubs has signed MoU with 4 global ecosystem 
hubs.
Education and skill 
development
Tamil Nadu
3 Years
iTNT 
Foundation
10.00
4.
AQAF (Air Quality Action Forum)
Purpose - The AQAF aims to collectively address the challenges 
posed by air pollution and pave the way towards a cleaner, healthier 
future.
Activity - Till now under AQAF, consultation meetings have been 
organized with 120+ stakeholders on various issues concerning air 
pollution and the Need Assessment Report is published in February 
2023
Environment and 
sustainability
1 Year
UNEP
10.12
Total CSR amount spent
26.09
	
(c)	Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
Sl.
No.
Name of the 
project
Item from the list of 
activities in Schedule 
VII to the Act
Local area 
(Yes/No)
Location of 
the project.
Amount spent 
for the project 
(in H)
Mode of 
Implementation
- Direct (Yes/No).
Mode of Implementation – Through 
Implementing Agency
State District
Name
CSR registration number
NIL
NIL

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 76
Annual Report 
2023
53
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
S. 
No.
Particular
Amount  
(in H)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5)
NIL
(ii) Total amount spent for the Financial Year
NIL
(iii) Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
NIL
(iv) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years, if any
NIL
(v) Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
NIL
	
(d) Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: NIL
	
(e) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: NIL
	
(f) Total amount spent for the Financial Year (8b+8c+8d+8e): NIL 
	
(g) Excess amount for set off, if any:
9.	 (a)	Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years:
Sl.
No.
Preceding 
Financial Year.
Amount transferred 
to Unspent CSR 
Account under 
section 135 (6) (in H)
Amount spent 
in the reporting 
Financial Year 
(in H).
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per section 135(6), if any.
Amount remaining 
to be spent in 
succeeding financial 
years. (in H)
Name	 of the Fund Amount (in Rs).
Date of 
transfer
NIL
NIL
	
(b) Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s):
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
Sl. 
No
Project 
ID.
Name of 
the Project
Financial Year 
in which the 
project was 
commenced
Project 
duration
Total amount 
allocated for the 
project (in J)
Amount spent on the 
project n the reporting 
Financial Year (in J).
Cumulative amount spent 
at the end of reporting 
Financial Year. (in J)
Status of the project 
Completed / Ongoing
NIL
NIL

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 77
Annual Report 
2023
54
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
10. In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating 
to the asset so created or acquired through CSR spent in the financial year 
(asset-wise details):
 
(a)	Date of creation or acquisition of the capital asset(s): Not Applicable
 
(b)	Amount of CSR spent for creation or acquisition of capital asset: Not Applicable
 
(c)	Details of the entity or public authority or beneficiary under whose name such capital asset 
is registered, their address etc.: Not Applicable
 
(d)	Provide details of the capital asset(s) created or acquired (including complete address and 
location of the capital asset): Not Applicable
11.	Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the 
average net profit as per section 135(5):
	
Not Applicable
 
For and on behalf of the Board
One 97 Communications Limited
Vijay Shekhar Sharma
 
Chairman, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 
Place: New Delhi 
& Chairman - CSR Committee
Date: July 21, 2023 
DIN: 00466521

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 78
Annual Report 
2023
55
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
Annexure IV
Statement of Disclosure of Remuneration under Section 197(12) of Companies Act, 2013, Read with 
Rule 5(1) of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
i.	
The percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive Officer, Chief 
Financial Officer and Company Secretary during FY 2022-23 and ratio of the remuneration 
of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company for 
FY 2022-23 are as under:
Name of Directors
Percentage 
(%) increase in 
remuneration 
in FY 2022-23
Rate of remuneration of 
each Director to median 
remuneration of the 
employees of the Company
Executive Directors 
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Chairman Managing 
Director and Chief Executive Officer
5.68
103.97
Mr. Madhur Deora, Executive Director, 
President and Group Chief Financial Officer*
9.43
83.49
Non-Executive Non-Independent Directors
Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli
N.A.
N.A.
Mr. Douglas Feagin
N.A.
N.A.
Non-Executive Independent Directors
Mr. Neeraj Arora
53.40
40.33
Mr. Ashit Ranjit Lilani
50.03
40.33
Mrs. Pallavi Shardul Shroff
11.03
50.47
Mr. Gopalasamudram Srinivasaraghavan 
Sundararajan**
N.A.
29.73
Mr. Mark Schwartz***
N.A.
21.04
Key Managerial Personnel other than Executive Directors
Mr. Amit Khera, Company Secretary****
2.54
32.85
	
Notes:
 
*The above remuneration of Mr. Madhur Deora does not include the perquisite value of ₹ 7,028,592 towards the value of Stock 
Options exercised during FY 2022-23
 
** Mr. Gopalasamudram Srinivasaraghavan Sundararajan was appointed as an Independent Director in FY 22-23 with effect from 
August 29, 2022.
 
*** Mr. Mark Schwartz ceased to be an Independent Director from August 30, 2022 due to his retirement.
 
****Mr. Amit Khera ceased to be the Company Secretary and Compliance Officer of the Company with effect from March 14, 
2023.
 
The percentage increase and ratio of the remuneration to the median remuneration of the employee’s remuneration for 
Executive Director and KMP’s is computed basis the remuneration excluding perquisite value of stock options exercised during 
FY 2022-23, value of Gratuity and leave encashment.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 79
Annual Report 
2023
56
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
ii.	 The percentage (%) increase in the median remuneration of the employees in the financial 
year: The percentage of the median remuneration of employees in FY 2022-23 has decreased 
by 67.16. (The reason for decrease is due to inclusion of Front line salesforce. Also, the Company 
has expanded their business and due to hiring of front line sales employees, the % change has 
further decreased.)
iii.	 The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company: There were 25,959 
employees (excluding subsidiary Companies employees) on the rolls of the Company as on 
March 31, 2023.
iv.	 Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the 
managerial personnel in the last financial year and its comparison with the percentile 
increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and point out if there are any 
exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration: The average increase 
in the remuneration of employees, excluding remuneration of KMPs, during FY 2022-23 was 
13%. There has been an increase of 5.68%  in the remuneration of Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma from 
FY 2021-22 remuneration and 9.43% increase in remuneration of Mr. Madhur Deora. However, 
these remunerations paid to them are within the limits as approved by the Members of the 
Company at their Annual General Meeting held on August 19, 2022. Further, no remuneration 
was paid to Non-Executive Director for FY 2022-23 and the remuneration paid to Non-Executive 
Independent Directors for FY 2022-23 is within the overall limits as approved by the Members 
of the Company.
v.	 Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company: Yes
 
For and on behalf of the Board
One 97 Communications Limited
Vijay Shekhar Sharma
Place: New Delhi 
Chairman, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Date: July 21, 2023 
DIN: 00466521

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 80
Annual Report 
2023
57
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
Annexure V
FORM NO. MR - 3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2023
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To, 
The Members, 
One 97 Communications Limited
(L72200DL2000PLC108985)
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the 
compliance of applicable statutory provisions 
and 
the 
adherence 
to 
good 
corporate 
practices by One 97 Communications Limited 
(hereinafter called “the Company”). 
The 
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner 
that provided us with a reasonable basis for 
evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory 
compliances 
and 
expressing 
our 
opinion 
thereon for the financial year ended on March 
31st, 2023 (“Audit Period”). The Company is in 
the business of providing: 
a) payment and financial services which 
primarily 
includes 
payment 
facilitator 
services, facilitation of consumer and 
merchant 
lending 
to 
consumers 
and 
merchants, wealth management, etc.
b) commerce 
and 
cloud 
services 
which 
primarily consists of aggregator for digital 
products, ticketing business, providing voice 
and messaging platforms to the telecom 
operators and enterprise customers and 
other businesses, etc.
Limitation of the Auditors
(i) Based on our verification of the Company’s 
books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed, and other records maintained 
by the Company and also the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents 
and authorized representatives during the 
conduct of Secretarial Audit, we hereby 
report that in our opinion, the Company has, 
during the Audit Period, complied with the 
statutory provisions listed hereunder; and 
(ii) Based on the management representation, 
confirmation and explanation wherever 
required by us, the Company has proper 
Board-processes 
and 
compliance-
mechanism in place to the extent, in the 
manner and subject to the reporting made 
hereinafter.
Auditors Responsibility
(i) Our responsibility is to express the opinion 
on the compliance with the applicable laws 
and maintenance of records based on audit. 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 81
Annual Report 
2023
58
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
We conducted our audit in accordance with 
the Guidance Note on Secretarial Audit 
(“Guidance Note”) and Auditing Standards 
issued 
by 
the 
Institute 
of 
Company 
Secretaries of India (“ICSI”). The Guidance 
Note and Auditing Standards require that 
we comply with statutory and regulatory 
requirements and also that we plan and 
perform the audit so as to obtain reasonable 
assurance about compliance with applicable 
laws and maintenance of records.
(ii) Due to the inherent limitations of an audit 
including internal, financial and operating 
controls, there is an unavoidable risk that 
some misstatements or material non-
compliances may not be detected, even 
though the audit is properly planned and 
performed in accordance with the Standards.
(iii) Our audit involves performing procedures to 
obtain audit evidence about the adequacy 
of compliance mechanism exist in the 
Company to assess any material weakness, 
and testing and evaluating the design and 
operating 
effectiveness 
of 
compliance 
mechanism based upon the assessed risk. 
The procedures selected depend upon the 
auditor’s judgement, including assessment 
of the risk of material non-compliance 
whether due to error or fraud.
(iv) We believe that the audit evidence we 
have obtained is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our audit opinion 
on the Company’s Board processes and 
compliance-mechanism.
We have examined the books, papers, minute 
books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company for the Audit Period, 
according to the provisions of:
(i) The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the 
rules made thereunder; 
(ii) The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 
1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder;
(iii) The 
Depositories 
Act, 
1996 
and 
the 
Regulations 
and 
Bye-laws 
framed 
thereunder;
(iv) Foreign 
Exchange 
Management 
Act, 
1999 and the rules and regulations made 
thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct 
Investment and Overseas Direct Investment 
and External Commercial Borrowings;
(v) The following Regulations and Guidelines 
prescribed 
under 
the 
Securities 
and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI 
Act’): -
 
a. The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares 
and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; 
 
b. The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015; 
 
c. The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2018; 
 
d. The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Share Based Employee Benefits 
and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021; 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 82
Annual Report 
2023
59
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
 
e. The Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Issue and Listing of Non-
Convertible 
Securities) 
Regulations, 
2021; (Not applicable to the Company 
during the audit period)
 
f. The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Registrars to an Issue and Share 
Transfer 
Agents) 
Regulations, 
1993 
regarding the Companies Act and dealing 
with client;
 
g. The Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) 
Regulations, 2021; (Not applicable to the 
Company during the audit period)
 
h. The Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Buy - back of Securities) 
Regulations, 2018; and 
 
i. 
The Securities and Exchange Board 
of 
India 
(Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (hereinafter referred to as ‘Listing 
Regulations’).
It is further reported that with respect to 
the compliance of other applicable laws, 
we have relied on the representation made 
by the Company and its officers for system 
and mechanism framed by the Company for 
compliances under general laws (including 
Labour Laws, Tax Laws, etc.) and as informed 
to us, there are no laws which are specifically 
applicable to the Company.
We have also examined compliance with the 
applicable clauses of the following: 
(i)  Secretarial Standards issued by the ICSI 
wherein the Company is generally complying 
with the standards; and
(ii)  The Listing Agreements entered into by the 
Company with the Stock Exchange(s) and 
Listing Regulations. 
During the period under review, the Company 
has complied with the provisions of the Act, 
Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, etc. 
as mentioned hereinabove.
We further report that: 
(i) The Board of Directors of the Company 
was duly constituted with proper balance 
of Executive Director(s), Non-Executive 
Directors 
and 
Independent 
Directors 
during the Audit Period. The changes in the 
composition of the Board of Directors that 
took place during the Audit Period were 
carried out in compliance with the provisions 
of the Act. The following changes took place 
during the audit period: 
 
a. Mr. Madhur Deora (DIN: 07720350) was 
appointed as a whole-time Director of the 
Company with effect from May 20, 2022. 
 
b. Mr. Gopalasamudram Srinivasaraghavan 
Sundararajan (DIN: 00361030) has been 
appointed as an Independent Director 
for a term of five years i.e., from August 
29, 2022 to August 28, 2027. 
 
c. Mr. Mark Schwartz ceased to be the 
Independent Director of the Company 
with effect from August 30, 2022. 
 
d. Mr. Douglas Feagin (DIN: 07868696), Non-
Executive, Non-Independent Director has 
resigned with effect from February 02, 
2023.
(ii) Further, the composition of all statutory 
committees was also in compliance with the 
Act and applicable Rules and Regulations. 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 83
Annual Report 
2023
60
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
(iii) Adequate notice was given to all Directors 
to schedule the Board Meetings, Statutory 
Committee Meetings, agenda and detailed 
notes on agenda were sent at least seven 
days in advance and a system exists for 
seeking and obtaining further information 
and clarifications on the agenda items before 
the meeting and for meaningful participation 
at the meeting.
(iv) The majority of decisions were carried 
through and there were no instances where 
any Director expressed any dissenting views.
We further report that in our opinion, the 
Company has, in all material respects, adequate 
systems and processes commensurate with the 
size and operations of the company to monitor 
and ensure compliance with applicable laws, 
rules, regulations, and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period the 
following events have occurred in the Company 
having major bearing on the Company’s affairs: 
i. 
That the Board of Directors at its meeting 
held on December 13, 2022 have approved 
buy-back of equity shares amounting to 
H 850,00,00,000 (Rupees Eight Hundred 
and Fifty crores Only) (Maximum buy-back 
size, excluding transaction costs and tax 
on buy-back) at a price not exceeding H 
810 per equity share (Maximum Buy-back 
price) which has been offered to the equity 
Members of the Company under the open 
market route through the stock exchanges. 
Consequently, the Company has bought 
back 1,55,66,746 (One Crore, Fifty-Five 
Lakhs, Sixty Six Thousand, Seven Hundred 
and Forty-Six) equity shares utilizing a 
total amount of amount of H849,83,39,982 
(Rupees Eight Hundred Forty Nine Crores 
Eighty Three Lakhs Thirty Nine Thousand 
Nine Hundred and Eighty Two Only) in 
accordance with the SEBI Regulations. Also, 
the shares which have been bought back 
have been extinguished by the Company 
for which the auditor’s certificate has been 
obtained and has been duly filed with the 
stock exchanges. The offer of the Buyback 
was commenced on December 21, 2022 
and closed on February 13, 2023. However, 
due to technical glitches on MCA portal, the 
Company has filed Form SH-11 pursuant 
to completion of Buy-back in physical 
mode with an undertaking to file the said 
form online when the MCA portal starts 
functioning smoothly. 
ii. That the Members of the Company has 
granted their approval on March 23, 2023 
vide Postal Ballot for entering into material 
related party transactions with Paytm 
Payments Bank Limited in accordance with 
the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015. 
iii. That the RBI has directed its material 
subsidiary i.e. Paytm Payments Services 
Limited (PPSL), not to onboard new online 
merchants and to seek necessary approval 
for past downward investment made by the 
Company to comply with FDI Guidelines. As 
informed to us, PPSL has filed the requisite 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 84
Annual Report 
2023
61
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
For PI & Associates,
Company Secretaries
Nitesh Latwal
Partner
ACS No.: 32109 
CP No.: 16276
Date: May 05, 2023 
Peer Review No.: 1498/2021
Place: New Delhi 
UDIN: A032109E000255123
application on December 14th, 2022 with the 
Government of India under FDI guidelines and 
the same is pending for disposal as on even 
date. 
iv. That during the quarter ended December 31, 
2022, the Company had received a demand of 
H 10,815 million against the show cause notice 
issued by Uttar Pradesh GST department 
against which the Company had filed a writ 
petition before the Hon’ble High Court of 
Allahabad which stayed the said demand 
however, the matter is pending for disposal.
Disclaimer:
This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as “Annexure A” which forms an integral part of this 
report

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 85
Annual Report 
2023
62
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
Annexure-A
To, 
The Members, 
One 97 Communications Limited
Our Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with this letter:
(i) Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our 
Responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit. 
(ii) We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable 
assurance about the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification 
was done on sampling basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. 
We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our 
opinion. 
(iii) We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of 
Accounts of the Company. 
(iv) Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of 
laws, rules and regulation and happening of events etc. 
(v) The compliance of the provisions of corporate and other sector specific laws as applicable on 
the Company, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of management. Our examination 
was limited to the verification of procedures on sampling basis. 
(vi) The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to future viability of the Company nor 
of the efficacy or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the 
Company.
For PI & Associates,
Company Secretaries
Nitesh Latwal
Partner
ACS No.: 32109 
CP No.: 16276
Date: May 05, 2023 
Peer Review No.: 1498/2021
Place: New Delhi 
UDIN: A032109E000255123

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 86
Annual Report 
2023
63
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
Annexure VI
FORM NO. MR - 3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31st, 2023
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule no.9 of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To, 
The Members, 
Paytm Payments Services Limited 
(U65990DL2020PLC371251)
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the 
compliance of applicable statutory provisions 
and 
the 
adherence 
to 
good 
corporate 
practices 
by 
Paytm 
Payments 
Services 
Limited (hereinafter called “the Company”). 
The Secretarial Audit was conducted in a 
manner that provided us a reasonable basis for 
evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory 
compliances 
and 
expressing 
our 
opinion 
thereon for the financial year ended on March 
31st, 2023 (“Audit Period”). As informed to us, 
the Company is in the process of obtaining its 
License to operate as a Payment Aggregator 
(‘PA’) from the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) 
under the Guidelines on Regulation of Payment 
Aggregators and Payment Gateways dated 
November 17th, 2020.
Based on our verification of the Company’s 
books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained 
by the Company, the information provided 
by the Company, its officers, agents and 
authorized representatives during the conduct 
of Secretarial Audit, we hereby report that in 
our opinion, the Company has, during the audit 
period covering the financial year ended on 
March 31st, 2023, complied with the statutory 
provisions listed hereunder and also that the 
Company has proper Board-processes and 
compliance-mechanism in place to the extent 
and as applicable to the Company, in the manner 
and subject to the reporting made hereinafter: 
We have examined the books, papers, minute 
books, forms and returns filed and other records 
made available to us and maintained by the 
Company for the financial year ended on March 
31, 2023 according to the provisions of: 
(i) The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the 
rules made thereunder; 
(ii) The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 
1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder; 
(Not Applicable)
(iii) The 
Depositories 
Act, 
1996 
and 
the 
Regulations 
and 
Bye-laws 
framed 
thereunder;
(iv) Foreign 
Exchange 
Management 
Act, 
1999 and the rules and regulations made 
thereunder; 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 87
Annual Report 
2023
64
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
(v) The following Regulations and Guidelines 
prescribed 
under 
the 
Securities 
and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI 
Act’): - 
 
a. The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares 
and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; (Not 
Applicable) 
 
b. The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015; (Not Applicable)
 
c. The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2018; (Not 
Applicable)
 
d. The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Share Based Employees Benefits) 
Regulations, 2014; (Not Applicable) 
 
e. The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) 
Regulations, 2008; (Not Applicable)
 
f. The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Registrars to an Issue and Share 
Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993; 
regarding the Companies Act and dealing 
with client; (Not Applicable)
 
g. The Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) 
Regulations, 2009; (Not Applicable)
 
h. The Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Buy - back of Securities) 
Regulations, 2018; (Not Applicable)
 
i. 
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Not 
Applicable)
(vi) Based upon the Management Representation 
for system and mechanism framed by the 
Company for compliances under general 
laws (including Labour Laws, Tax Laws, etc) 
and wherever required from the Company, 
we further report that there are adequate 
systems and processes in the Company 
commensurate with the size and operations 
of the Company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with the following pertinent 
laws, rules, regulations and guidelines as 
specifically applicable to the Company: -
 
i. 
The Payment and Settlement Systems 
Act, 2007 read with Payment and 
Settlement Systems Regulations, 2008 
('PSS Act, 2007’);
 
ii. Guidelines on Regulation of Payment 
Aggregators and Payment Gateways 
(‘PA/PG 
Guidelines’) 
as 
updated 
thereunder; and
 
iii. Directions for Opening and Operation of 
Accounts and Settlement of Payments 
for Electronic Payment Transactions 
Involving Intermediaries (‘Intermediaries 
Directions’) vide RBI’s Notification dated 
November 24th, 2009.
We further report basis upon the explanation 
provided by the management that the Company 
has been complying with the abovementioned 
Act, Guidelines and Directions to the extent it 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 88
Annual Report 
2023
65
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
is applicable and post receipt of license from 
RBI, the Company will duly comply with the 
foregoing Act, Guidelines and Directions. 
We have also examined compliance with the 
applicable clauses of the following: 
(i) Secretarial 
Standards 
issued 
by 
The 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India 
with respect to board and general meetings 
and the Company is generally in compliance 
with the standards. 
(ii) The Listing Agreements entered into by the 
Company with the Stock Exchange(s), if 
applicable; (Not Applicable)
During the period under review the Company has 
complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, 
Regulations, Guidelines, Standards etc. read 
with matters of emphasis provided hereinbelow.
We further report that: 
I. As on even date, the Board of Directors 
of the Company is duly constituted with 
proper balance of Executive Directors, 
Non-Executive Directors and Independent 
Directors. The changes in the composition 
of the Board of Directors that took place 
during the period under review were carried 
out in compliance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013. The following changes 
took place during the Audit Period:
 
(a) Mr. Srinivas Yanamandra, Mr. Nakul 
Jain, Mrs. Pallavi Shardul Shroff and 
Mr. Bhavesh Gupta were appointed as 
Non-Executive Directors on the Board of 
the Company. Thereafter, Mr. Nakul Jain 
was appointed as a Managing Director 
w.e.f August 01st, 2022.
 
(b) Mr. Deepankar Sanwalka and Mr. Praveen 
Sharma resigned as Directors from the 
Board of the Company. 
II. Adequate notice was given to all Directors 
to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda 
and detailed notes on agenda were sent at 
least seven days in advance for meetings 
other than those held at shorter notice, and 
a system exists for seeking and obtaining 
further information and clarifications on the 
agenda items before the meeting and for 
meaningful participation at the meeting. 
III. Majority decisions were carried through and 
there were no instances where any Director 
expressed any dissenting views. 
We further report that there are adequate 
systems and processes in the Company 
commensurate with the size and operations of 
the Company to monitor and ensure compliance 
with applicable laws, rules, regulations and 
guidelines. 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 89
Annual Report 
2023
66
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
For PI & Associates,
Company Secretaries
Ankit Singhi
Partner
FCS No.: F11685 
C P No: 16274
Date: May 03, 2023 
Peer Review No.: 1498/2021
Place: New Delhi  
UDIN: F011685E000248262 
We further report that during the Audit Period, the following events occurred which had a bearing 
on the Company’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred laws, rules, regulations and guidelines: 
1) In response to the application made by the Company to the RBI for authorization to set-up 
Payment Systems under PSS Act, 2007 on January 08th, 2021, the RBI on November 25th, 2022 
had made following directions:
 
(a) Resubmit the PA application within 120 calendar days,
 
(b) Not onboard new online merchants 
 
(c) Seek necessary approval for past downward investment from the Company in to PPSL, to 
comply with FDI Guidelines. 
2) As informed to us, the Company has filed the required application on December 14th, 2022 
with the Government of India for past downward investment from the Parent Company, One97 
Communication Limited, into the Company in order to comply with the Press Note 3/ 2020 (‘PN-
3’) prescribed under FDI guidelines and the application is under process.
3) As further informed to us, the Company has also filed an extension application to the RBI for re-
submitting the application of Payment Aggregator and RBI has also granted the extension and 
directed the Company to re-submit the said application upon approval of the application made 
under PN-3. 
This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as “Annexure A” and forms an integral part of this report.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 90
Annual Report 
2023
67
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report
For PI & Associates,
Company Secretaries
Ankit Singhi
Partner
FCS No.: F11685 
C P No: 16274
Date: May 03, 2023 
Peer Review No.: 1498/2021
Place: New Delhi  
UDIN: F011685E000248262 
“Annexure A”
To, 
The Members, 
Paytm Payments Services Limited 
Our Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with this letter. 
1. Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our 
Responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit. 
2. We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable 
assurance about the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was 
done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe 
that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
3. We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of 
Accounts of the Company. 
4. Wherever required, we have obtained the Compliance Certificate/Management Representation 
about the compliance of laws, rules and regulation and happening of events etc. 
5. The compliance of the provisions of corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, 
standards are the responsibility of management. Our examination was limited to the verification 
of procedures on test basis. 
6. The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to future viability of the Company nor 
of the efficacy or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the 
Company.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 91
Annual Report 
2023
68
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance Report
The report on Corporate Governance is 
prepared pursuant to Regulation 34 read with 
Schedule V of the Securities Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing 
Regulations”).
A.	Company’s 
Philosophy 
on 
Corporate Governance	
One 97 Communications Limited (“Company”) 
believes that effective Corporate Governance 
is a key component to enhance and maintain 
stakeholders’ value. The Company has adopted 
sound management practices and adheres to 
the applicable regulatory and legal framework.
The principles of Corporate Governance are 
based on transparency, accountability, business 
ethics which focuses on the sustainable success 
of the Company. The Company understands 
that a strong and transparent disclosure regime 
is pivotal to shareholders’ ability to exercise 
their rights on an informed basis. The Company 
constantly endeavours to promote mutual trust 
and co-operation with all its stakeholders by 
practicing requisite levels of disclosure and 
transparency, as per applicable laws and its 
policy(ies).
The Company is committed to following the 
highest level of Corporate Governance practices 
across all functions. It is in compliance with the 
requirements stipulated under Regulation 17 to 
27 read with Schedule V and sub-regulation (2) 
of Regulation 46 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
as applicable, with regard to Corporate 
Governance.
B.	Board of Directors	
The Company is a professionally managed 
company 
functioning 
under 
the 
overall 
supervision of its Board of Directors (“Board”). 
The Board has the ultimate responsibility for 
the management, general affairs, direction, 
performance and long-term success of the 
Company’s business. The functions of the Board 
are supported by the Managing Director and 
Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director, Key 
Managerial Personnel and Senior Management 
Personnel for discharging its fiduciary duties. 
The Board provides strategic guidance & 
oversees how the Executive Management 
serves and protects the long-term interest of all 
the stakeholders of your Company. The Board 
strives to achieve compliance with all relevant 
laws, regulations, governance practices and 
secretarial, accounting & auditing standards. It 
identifies key risk areas and key performance 
indicators of business of your Company and 
constantly monitors the same.
The Board of the Company consists of eminent 
individuals of diverse backgrounds with skills, 
experience, and expertise in the areas like 
technology, strategic planning, finance etc. 
The composition and strength of the Board is 
reviewed from time to time to ensure that it 
remains aligned with the statutory as well as 
the business requirements. The brief profile of 
Directors of the Company is available on the 
website of the Company at https://ir.paytm.
com/directors-and-committees.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 92
Annual Report 
2023
69
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Board Composition
The Board comprises an optimum combination 
of 
Executive 
Directors, 
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent 
Directors, 
Non-Executive 
Independent Directors and Independent Woman 
Director as required under the Companies 
Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the SEBI Listing 
Regulations. As on March 31, 2023, the Board 
comprises of 7 (seven) Directors, out of which 
4 
(four) 
are 
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Directors (“ID”) including a woman Director, 
2 (two) are Executive Directors and 1 (one) is 
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director.
Board Composition as on March 31, 
2023
Executive Directors
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
Non-Executive Independent Directors
57.14%
28.57%
14.29%
During FY 2022-23, the composition and categories of the Directors on the Board, their attendance 
at the last Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), and their Directorship(s), Committee Membership(s) or 
Chairpersonship(s) in other companies is provided below:
Name of the 
Director
Director 
Identification
Number
Designation & 
Category
No. of board 
meetings 
attended 
(total held 
during 
tenure)
Whether 
attended 
last AGM
Name of the listed 
entity where person 
is Director along 
with category of 
Directorships1
Number
of other
Directorships1
Committees 
Membership/ 
Chairpersonships2
Chairperson Member
Mr. Vijay
Shekhar Sharma3,4
00466521
Executive 
Director 
(Chairman, 
Managing 
Director and 
Chief Executive 
Officer)
7(7)
Yes
NIL
3
NIL
NIL
Mr. Ravi Chandra 
Adusumalli
00253613
Non-Executive 
Non-
Independent 
Director
7(7)6
No
NIL
1
NIL
2
Mr. Neeraj Arora4
07221836
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
4(7)
No
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Mr. Madhur 
Deora3,4
07720350
Executive 
Director, 
President and 
Group Chief 
Financial Officer
7(7)
Yes
NIL
4
1
1
Mr. Ashit Ranjit 
Lilani
00766821
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
7(7)
Yes
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 93
Annual Report 
2023
70
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Name of the 
Director
Director 
Identification
Number
Designation & 
Category
No. of board 
meetings 
attended 
(total held 
during 
tenure)
Whether 
attended 
last AGM
Name of the listed 
entity where person 
is Director along 
with category of 
Directorships1
Number
of other
Directorships1
Committees 
Membership/ 
Chairpersonships2
Chairperson Member
Mrs. Pallavi 
Shardul Shroff
00013580
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
3(7)
Yes
Asian Paints Limited 
- Non-Executive 
Independent Director
Apollo Tyres Limited 
- Non-Executive 
Independent Director
Interglobe 
Aviation Limited 
- Non-Executive 
Independent Director
PVR Limited - 
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
5
NIL
5
Mr. 
Gopalasamudram 
Srinivasaraghavan 
Sundararajan3
00361030
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
5(5)
Not 
Applicable 
(‘NA’)
NIL
3
3
NIL
Mr. Mark 
Schwartz3
07634689
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
1(2)
Yes
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Mr. Douglas 
Feagin3
07868696
Non-Executive 
Non-
Independent 
Director
4(5)
No
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Notes:
1. 
The directorships, held by Directors, as mentioned above, 
do not include the Directorships held in private companies, 
deemed public companies, foreign body corporates and 
Section 8 companies.
2. 
The 
Chairpersonship 
and 
Membership 
of 
Audit 
Committee and Stakeholders Relationship Committee of 
public companies (excluding the Company) have been 
considered. The details of Committees Memberships 
provided above do not include Chairpersonship of 
Committees as the same has been provided separately.
3. 
The details with respect to appointment and cessation of 
Directors, during FY 2022-23 is as follows:
 
• 
Mr. Madhur Deora was appointed as Whole-time 
Director designated as ‘Executive Director, President 
and Group Chief Financial Officer’ of the Company 
w.e.f. May 20, 2022.
 
• 
Mr. Gopalasamudram Srinivasaraghavan Sundararajan, 
was appointed as Non-Executive Independent Director 
of the Company w.e.f. August 29, 2022.
 
• 
Mr. Mark Schwartz, Non-Executive Independent 
Director ceased to be a Director of the Company 
w.e.f. August 30, 2022.
 
• 
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma was re-appointed as 
Managing Director designated as ‘Managing Director 
and Chief Executive Officer” of the Company w.e.f. 
December 19, 2022.
 
• 
Mr. Douglas Feagin, Non-Executive Non-Independent 
Director ceased to be a Director of the Company 
w.e.f. February 02, 2023.
4. 
As on March 31, 2023, apart from the following Directors, 
no other Director of the Company holds shares in the 
Company:
 
• 
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Chairman, Managing 
Director and Chief Executive Officer holds 57,845,053 
equity shares;
 
• 
Mr. Madhur Deora, Executive Director, President and 
Group Chief Financial Officer holds 688,394 equity 
shares; and
 
• 
Mr. Neeraj Arora, Non-Executive Independent Director 
holds 75,000 equity shares.
 
Further, none of the Non-Executive Directors of the 
Company including Non-Executive Independent Directors 
holds any convertible instruments in the Company.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 94
Annual Report 
2023
71
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
5. 
None of the Directors are relatives of any other Directors and are Independent to each other.
6. 
As on March 31, 2023, Mr. Vivek Kumar Mathur (DIN: 03581311), was an Alternate Director to Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli. 
One meeting was attended by Mr. Mathur. He resigned w.e.f. June 30, 2023.
Board Meetings and Attendance
During FY 2022-23, the Board met 7 (seven) times with necessary quorum being present at all 
meetings. The intervening gap between any two consecutive Board meetings was within the period 
prescribed under the provisions of Section 173 of the Act and Regulation 17 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations. 
S. 
No.
Date of Board meeting
Board 
Strength
No. of Directors 
present
% of 
attendance
1
May 20, 2022
8
5
62.50
2
August 05, 2022
8
8
100.00
3
November 07, 2022
8
6
75.00
4
December 13, 2022
8
8
100.00
5
January 23, 2023
8
6
75.00
6
February 03, 2023
7
6
85.71
7
March 31, 2023
7
6
85.71
The details of the Board meetings and attendance of Directors at these meetings are given below:
Key Board Skills, Expertise and Competencies
The Board of the Company represents the following core skills, expertise and competencies:
Area
Particulars
Business and 
Management
Knowledge, experience, or meaningful exposure of the business environment, economic 
conditions, cultures across various geographical markets, industry verticals, and 
regulatory jurisdictions, and a broad perspective on market opportunities.
Corporate 
Governance
Experience in designing, finalizing and implementing good corporate governance 
practices, reviewing compliance and governance practices for a sustainable growth 
of the Company, supporting a strong Board base and management accountability, 
transparency, and protection of shareholders interests.
Technology 
and digital 
expertise
Understanding the use of digital/ information technology, ability to anticipate 
technological driven changes and disruption impacting business and appreciation 
of the need of cyber security and controls across the organisation.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 95
Annual Report 
2023
72
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Skills
Mr. Vijay 
Shekhar 
Sharma
Mr. Ravi 
Chandra 
Adusumalli
Mr. 
Neeraj 
Arora
Mr. 
Madhur 
Deora
Mr. Ashit 
Ranjit 
Lilani
Mrs. 
Pallavi 
Shardul 
Shroff
Mr. 
Gopalasamudram 
Srinivasaraghavan 
Sundararajan
Business and 
Management
Corporate 
Governance
Technology and 
digital expertise
Financial
Marketing
Area
Particulars
Financial
Knowledge and skills in accounting, finance, treasury management, oversight for 
risk management and internal controls, understanding of capital allocation, funding 
and financial reporting processes.
Marketing
Ability to lead the strategies to grow market share, build brand awareness and 
equity, enhance brand reputation, and to leverage consumer insights for business 
benefits. Ability and experience to leverage the innovation in products and 
categories in consumer space for growth and profitability and understanding of 
Research and Development activities.
Information flow to the Board Members
The Board meets at regular intervals to discuss 
and decide on business strategies/ policies 
and review the financial performance of the 
Company. The detailed agenda along with the 
relevant notes and other material information, 
are sent in advance individually to each 
Director and in exceptional cases, placed at 
the meeting of the Board in accordance with 
the applicable laws. This ensures timely and 
informed decisions by the Board. Information is 
provided to the Board Members on a continuous 
basis for their review, inputs and approval. 
The Company’s quarterly and annual financial 
results/ statements are first presented to the 
Audit Committee and subsequently placed 
before the Board for its approval.
In addition, various matters such as appointment 
of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel, 
details 
of 
investor 
grievances, 
important 
managerial 
decisions, 
material 
positive/ 
negative developments and legal/ statutory 
matters are presented to the respective 
Committee and placed for noting / approval of 
the Board subsequently upon recommendation 
by respective Committee.
The documents containing Unpublished Price 
Sensitive Information are submitted to the Board 
at a shorter notice, as per the general consent 
taken from the Board, from time to time.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 96
Annual Report 
2023
73
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Post-Meeting Follow-Up System
The important decisions taken at the Board and 
Committee meetings are tracked till their closure 
and an ‘action taken report’ is placed before each 
Board and Committee meeting for noting.
Information available to the Board
The Board has complete access to all relevant 
information within the Company. The information 
shared with the Board on a regular basis, inter-
alia, includes:
• Annual operating plans, capital budgets and 
updates thereon;
• Regular business updates;
• Quarterly/ 
annual 
consolidated 
and 
standalone 
financial 
results/ 
financial 
statements of the Company and its operating 
divisions or business segments;
• Minutes of meetings of the Board and 
its Committees, Resolutions passed by 
circulation, and Board minutes of the unlisted 
subsidiary companies;
• Information on recruitment/remuneration of 
Senior Management Personnel at one level 
below the Board;
• Material important show cause, demand, 
prosecution notices and penalty notices, if 
any.
• Details of any acquisition, joint venture or 
collaboration agreement;
• Quarterly treasury reports;
• Quarterly compliance certificates with the 
‘Exceptions Reports and Material Litigations’, 
which includes non-compliance of any 
regulatory, statutory nature or the SEBI 
Listing Regulations;
• Review of vigil/ whistle blower mechanism 
and framework on Prevention of Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace;
• Disclosures received from Directors;
• Proposals requiring strategic guidance and 
approval of the Board;
• Related party transactions;
• Update on Corporate Social Responsibility 
activities, if any; and
• Report on action taken on the last Board 
meeting decisions.
Independent Directors
The Board of the Company comprises 4 
(four) Non-Executive Independent Directors. 
In the opinion of the Board and based on the 
declarations received, all the Non-Executive 
Independent Directors fulfill the conditions 
under Section 149(6) of the Act and Regulation 
16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, and 
that they are independent of the management.
Further, in terms of Regulation 25(8) of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, they have confirmed 
that they are not aware of any circumstance 
or situation which exists or may be reasonably 
anticipated that could impair or impact their 
ability to discharge their duties.
Meeting 
of 
Non-Executive 
Independent Directors
During FY 2022-2023, the Non-Executive 
Independent Directors of the Company met on 
March 31, 2023, without the presence of other 
members of the Board and management, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act and 
the SEBI Listing Regulations. The Non-Executive 
Independent Directors, inter-alia, reviewed the 
performance of Non-Independent Directors, 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 97
Annual Report 
2023
74
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Board as a whole and Chairman of the Company, 
taking into account the views of Executive 
Directors 
and 
Non-Executive 
Directors. 
They also assessed the quality, quantity and 
timeliness of flow of information between the 
management and the Board that is necessary 
for them to effectively and reasonably perform 
their duties.
Familiarisation Programmes for Non-
Executive Independent Directors 
The familiarisation programmes include periodic 
presentations made at the Board and Committee 
meetings on business and performance updates, 
business strategy, nature of the industry in 
which the Company operates, business model 
and risk involved including their roles, rights, 
responsibilities in the Company etc.
The 
details 
of 
familiarisation 
programmes 
imparted to Non-Executive Independent Directors 
are available on the website of the Company at 
https://ir.paytm.com/policies-and-guidelines.
Succession Planning
The Company has an effective mechanism for 
succession planning which focuses on orderly 
succession of Directors and other Senior 
Management Personnel. The Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee 
implements 
this 
mechanism in concurrence with the Board.
Paytm has been growing at a fast pace 
and has made targeted efforts in investing 
across Product, Technology, Business, Risk & 
Operations and Enabling functions to ensure that 
the Senior leadership and KMPs are supported 
by professionals with domain expertise and a 
strong career track record of performance in 
high performing organizations. This has enabled 
us to manage any talent risks for growth and on-
going delivery. Our top tier retention at senior 
leadership is in the top quartile . As we grow we 
will continue to enhance our succession planning 
mechanisms and develop talent internally for 
critical roles within the organisation.
Performance Evaluation
In compliance with the provisions of the Act, 
the SEBI Listing Regulations and the guidance 
note issued by SEBI on board evaluation, 
annual performance evaluation of the Board is 
undertaken where the Board formally assesses 
its own performance with the aim to improve the 
effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee, 
at its meeting held on January 31, 2023, 
deliberated and approved the structured process, 
format, attributes, criteria and questionnaires 
as a whole, for the performance evaluation 
of the Board, its Committees and Individual 
Directors including the additional questions for 
evaluation of Chairperson, Managing Director 
and Chief Executive Officer, and Non-Executive 
Independent Directors, keeping in view the Board 
priorities and best practices.
All the Directors participated and completed the 
performance evaluation process for FY 2022-
23. The results of evaluation were discussed in 
the meeting of the respective Committees and 
the Board.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 98
Annual Report 
2023
75
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
S. 
No.
Category
Criteria
1.
Board of 
Directors
Board structure, composition, quality, diversity, experience, competencies, 
performance of specific duties and obligations, quality of decision making, 
board practices and overall effectiveness of Board as a whole.
2.
Board 
Committees
Committee composition, effectiveness of Committee in terms of well- defined 
charters & powers and information- flow with the Board in terms of reporting 
and due consideration of Committees’ decisions, findings after seeking input 
from the Committee members and recommendations at the Board level.
3.
Individual 
Directors
Understanding of the Company’s business, its market and short, medium 
and long-term goals, ability to express disagreement & divergent views and 
independent judgement, understanding the need to balance entrepreneurial 
leadership with need for effective governance etc.
4.
Chairman, 
Managing 
Director and 
Chief Executive 
Officer
Leadership development, Board management, developing and delivering 
the Company’s strategy and business plans, evaluation and actualization of 
domestic and international industry trends and business opportunities etc.
5.
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Directors
Besides the criteria mentioned in point no. 3 above, the following are 
additional criteria:
» Providing strategic guidance to the Company and help determine important 
policies with a view to ensuring long-term viability and strength.
» Bringing external expertise and independent judgement that contributes 
objectivity in the Board’s deliberations, particularly on issues of strategy, 
performance and conflict management.
Overview of Evaluation Framework and Evaluation Criteria:
Outcome of the Evaluation process and action plan
The Board expressed satisfaction with its overall effectiveness and performance and lauded the 
Company’s ethical standards and transparency. It was noted that the Board as a whole is functioning 
as a highly effective and cohesive body. It was also noted that the Committees are functioning 
effectively in accordance with their defined charters/ terms of reference.
The recommendations arising out of the evaluation process were discussed with the Board.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 99
Annual Report 
2023
76
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Directors’ remuneration
In terms of the provisions of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board has approved 
a Nomination and Remuneration Policy for Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other Senior 
Management Personnel which includes the criteria of making payments to Non-Executive Directors. 
The Company’s remuneration policy is directed towards rewarding performance based on a periodic 
review of the achievements.
The Policy is available on the website of the Company at https://ir.paytm.com/policies-and-
guidelines. The Company affirms that the remuneration paid to the Directors is as per terms laid out 
in the Nomination and Remuneration Policy.
The details of remuneration paid to Directors during FY 2022-23 are given below:
(Amount J in million)
Directors
Sitting 
Fees
Remuneration Commission Perquisites* Allowances Variable 
Bonus $
Total
Executive 
Directors
Mr. Vijay Shekhar 
Sharma2
-
40.00
-
2.31
-
-
42.31
Mr. Madhur 
Deora^
-
31.78
-
-
-
2.20 33.98
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent 
Directors
Mr. Ravi Chandra 
Adusumalli
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mr. Douglas 
Feagin2
-
-
-
-
-
-
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Directors
Mr. Neeraj Arora
-
16.41
-
-
-
-
16.41
Mr. Ashit Ranjit 
Lilani
-
16.41
-
-
-
-
16.41
Mrs. Pallavi 
Shardul Shroff
-
20.54
-
-
-
- 20.54
Mr. 
Gopalasamudram 
Srinivasaraghavan 
Sundararajan2
-
12.10
-
-
-
-
12.10
Mr. Mark 
Schwartz2
-
8.56
-
-
-
-
8.56
Total
-
145.80
-
2.31
-
2.20 150.31

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 100
Annual Report 
2023
77
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Notes:
1. 
As per the Nomination and Remuneration Policy, the Non-Executive Independent Directors are entitled to such remuneration 
as approved by the Board within the overall limits approved by the Members and permissible under the applicable provisions 
of the Act. No remuneration was paid to the Non-Executive Non-Independent Directors for FY 2022-23.
2. 
The requisite details relating to appointment/ cessation of Directors have been provided as footnotes to the table under 
section ‘Board Composition, Board Meetings and Board Attendance’ of this report.
3. 
The Remuneration includes the Company’s contribution to the Provident Fund, if any. Liability for gratuity, leave encashment 
and LTIP (Long Term Incentive Plan) is provided on actuarial basis for the Company as a whole, the amount pertaining to the 
Executive Directors is not ascertainable and, therefore, not included.
4. 
Except for the remuneration payable to the Non-Executive Independent Directors in accordance with the applicable laws and 
with the approval of the Members, there is no pecuniary or business relationship between the Non-Executive Directors vis-à-
vis the Company. Mrs. Pallavi Shardul Shroff, Non-Executive Independent Director of the Company, is the Managing Partner of 
M/s. Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co., Solicitors & Advocates, which renders professional services to the Company. The 
quantum of fees paid to M/s. Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co. is an insignificant portion of their total revenue, thus, M/s. 
Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co., is not to be construed to have any material association with the Company.
5. 
The terms of severance, notice period and termination for the Executive Directors of the Company will be governed by terms 
and conditions of the agreement entered with the Company. Further, no notice period or severance fee is paid to any other 
Director.
 
 
$For Madhur Deora, variable remuneration is LTIP (Long Term Incentive Plan) which is paid out based on Annual 
performance rating by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee. Variable remuneration for FY22 performance is to 
be paid out in 3 tranches (50% in FY23, 25% in FY24 and 25% in FY25) and for FY23 performance will also be paid out in 
3 tranches (50% in FY24, 25% in FY25 and 25% in FY26).
 
 
^The above remuneration of Mr. Madhur Deora does not include the perquisite value of H 7,028,592  towards the value of 
Stock Options exercised during FY 2022-23.
 
 
*Perquisites granted to Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma include two vehicles and related expenses on actual, utility and other 
expenses in relation to the Company, leased accommodation and club subscription. Provided that the aggregate value of 
perquisites shall not exceed 25% of total remuneration.
 
 
** During FY 2022-23, Mr. Madhur Deora was granted 55,556 stock options on May 20, 2022 under ESOP Scheme 2019 
of the Company towards his performance appraisal for the FY 2021-22. As on date, he holds 677,774 stock options which 
were granted in previous financial years, under One 97 Employees Stock Option Scheme 2019 (referred to as “Scheme”), 
which were duly approved by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee/ Board/ Members of the Company. These  
options shall vest over a period of 5 years @ 10%, 20%, 20%, 25% and 25% per year, from the respective dates of grants, 
as mentioned in his grant letters.
6. 
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma was not granted any ESOPs during FY 2022-23. During FY 2021-22, Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma was 
granted 21,000,000 stock options, under One 97 Employees Stock Option Scheme 2019, and duly approved by the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee / Board / Members of the Company. The vesting of these options is subject to achievement 
of certain milestones (including the market cap of the Company crossing its IPO level, on a sustained basis), and will vest 
equally in 4 tranches having a minimum vesting period of 24 months, 36 months, 48 months and 60 months for each tranche, 
respectively, from the date of grant as mentioned in his grant letter.
7. 
None of the other Directors have been granted any stock options during FY 2022-23.
8. 
No sitting fee was paid to Directors during FY 2022-23.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 101
Annual Report 
2023
78
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
C.	Board Committees
The Board has constituted various Committees 
to focus on specific areas and make informed 
decisions within the authority delegated to 
each of the Committee. Each Committee of 
the Board is guided by its Charter/ terms of 
reference, which defines the scope, powers and 
composition of the Committee. All decisions 
and recommendations of the Committees are 
placed before the Board for its information or 
approval.
During FY 2022-23, the Board has accepted all 
the recommendations of its Committees.
Audit Committee
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
As on March 31, 2023, the Audit Committee 
comprised of 3 (three) Non-Executive Directors out 
of whom 2 (two) are Non-Executive Independent 
Directors and 1 (one) is Non-Executive Non-
Independent 
Director. 
Mr. 
Gopalasamudram 
Srinivasaraghavan Sundararajan, Non-Executive 
Independent Director and Chairman of the 
Committee holds Post Graduate Diploma in 
Management 
from 
the 
Indian 
Institute 
of 
Management (IIM), Ahmedabad and possesses 
expert financial knowledge. All the members of 
the Committee are financially literate and have 
necessary accounting and financial management 
expertise/background.
During FY 2022-23, the following changes 
occurred in the composition of the Committee:
a) Mr. Gopalasamudram Srinivasaraghavan 
Sundararajan, Non-Executive Independent 
Director was appointed as the member and 
Chairman of the Committee w.e.f. August 
29, 2022; and
b) Mr. 
Mark 
Schwartz, 
Non-Executive 
Independent Director ceased to be the 
member and Chairman of the Committee 
w.e.f. August 29, 2022;
The composition of the Audit Committee meets 
the requirements of Section 177 of the Act and 
Regulation 18 of the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary 
of the Audit Committee.
During FY 2022-23, the Committee met 7 
(seven) times viz., on April 26, 2022, May 19, 
2022, August 04, 2022, November 07, 2022, 
January 25, 2023, February 03, 2023, and March 
30, 2023.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 102
Annual Report 
2023
79
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
S.
No.
Date of Committee 
meeting
Name of the Committee Members
Mr. Gopalasamudram 
Srinivasaraghavan 
Sundararajan, Chairman 
(Non-Executive 
Independent Director)
Mr. Mark 
Schwartz 
(Non- 
Executive 
Independent 
Director)
Mr. Ravi Chandra 
Adusumalli (Non-
Executive Non-
Independent 
Director)
Mrs. Pallavi 
Shardul 
Shroff (Non- 
Executive 
Independent 
Director)
1
April 26, 2022
NA^
Yes
Yes
Yes
2
May 19, 2022
NA^
Yes
Yes
Yes
3
August 04, 2022
NA^
Yes
Yes
Yes
4
November 07, 2022
Yes
NA^^
Yes*
Yes
5
January 25, 2023
Yes
NA^^
Yes
Yes
6
February 03, 2023
Yes
NA^^
Leave of absence
Yes
7
March 30, 2023
Yes
NA^^
Yes
Yes
Number of meetings 
attended (total held 
during tenure)
4(4)
3(3)
6(7)
7(7)
^ Not Applicable as Mr. Gopalasamudram Srinivasaraghavan Sundararajan, Non-Executive Independent Director was appointed as 
the member and Chairman of the Committee w.e.f. August 29, 2022.
^^Not applicable as Mr. Mark Schwartz,  Non-Executive Independent Director ceased to be member of the Committee w.e.f. August 
29, 2022.
* The Audit Committee Meeting held on November 7, 2022 was attended by Mr. Vivek Kumar Mathur as an Alternate Director to 
Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli.
The composition of the Committee and attendance of members at the Committee meetings held 
during FY 2022-23, are given below:
Terms of Reference
Following are the terms of reference of the Audit 
Committee:
A.	 The Audit Committee shall have powers, 
including the following:
 
• Investigate any activity within its terms 
of reference;
 
• Seek information from any employee;
 
• Obtain outside legal or other professional 
advice; and
 
• Secure attendance of outsiders with 
relevant 
expertise, 
if 
it 
considers 
necessary.
B.	 The role of the Audit Committee shall 
include the following:
 
• Oversight of financial reporting process 
and the disclosure of financial information 
relating to the Company to ensure that 
the financial statements are correct, 
sufficient and credible;
 
• 
Recommendation 
to 
the 
Board 
for 
appointment, re- appointment, replacement, 
remuneration and terms of appointment of 
auditors of the Company and the fixation of 
the audit fee;
 
• Approval 
of 
payment 
to 
statutory 
auditors for any other services rendered 
by the statutory auditors;

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 103
Annual Report 
2023
80
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
 
• Examining and reviewing, with the 
management, 
the 
annual 
financial 
statements and auditor's report thereon 
before submission to the Board for 
approval, with particular reference to:
 
 
a) Matters required to be included in the 
Director’s Responsibility Statement 
to be included in the Board’s report 
in terms of clause(c) of sub-section 3 
of Section 134 of the Act;
 
 
b) Changes, if any, in accounting policies 
and practices and reasons for the 
same;
 
 
c) Major accounting entries involving 
estimates based on the exercise of 
judgment by management;
 
 
d) Significant adjustments made in the 
financial statements arising out of 
audit findings;
 
 
e) Compliance with listing and other 
legal requirements relating to financial 
statements;
 
 
f) Disclosure of any related party 
transactions; and
 
 
g) Modified opinion(s) in the draft audit 
report.
 
• Reviewing, with the management, the 
quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial 
statements before submission to the 
Board for approval;
 
• Reviewing, with the management, the 
statement of uses / application of funds 
raised through an issue (public issue, 
rights issue, preferential issue, etc.), the 
statement of funds utilized for purposes 
other than those stated in the Offer 
document / prospectus / notice and 
the report submitted by the monitoring 
agency monitoring the utilisation of 
proceeds of a public or rights issue, and 
making appropriate recommendations to 
the Board to take up steps in this matter;
 
• Reviewing and monitoring the auditor’s 
independence and performance, and 
effectiveness of audit process;
 
• Approval of any subsequent modification 
of transactions of the Company with 
related parties and omnibus approval for 
related party transactions proposed to 
be entered into by the Company, subject 
to the conditions as may be prescribed;
 
Explanation: 
The 
term 
"related 
party 
transactions" shall have the same meaning 
as provided in Clause 2(zc) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations and/ or the applicable 
Accounting Standards and/or the Act.
 
• Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and 
investments;
 
• Valuation of undertakings or assets of 
the Company, wherever it is necessary;
 
• Evaluation of internal financial controls 
and risk management systems;
 
• Reviewing, 
with 
the 
management, 
performance of statutory and internal 
auditors, and adequacy of the internal 
control systems;
 
• Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit 
function, if any, including the structure 
of the internal audit department, staffing 
and seniority of the official heading 
the department, reporting structure 
coverage and frequency of internal audit;

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 104
Annual Report 
2023
81
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
 
• Discussion with internal auditors of 
any significant findings and follow-up 
thereon;
 
• Reviewing the findings of any internal 
investigations by the internal auditors 
into matters where there is suspected 
fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal 
control systems of a material nature and 
reporting the matter to the Board;
 
• Discussion with statutory auditors before 
the audit commences, about the nature 
and scope of audit as well as post-audit 
discussion to ascertain any area of 
concern;
 
• Looking into the reasons for substantial 
defaults in the payment to depositors, 
debenture holders, shareholders (in case 
of non-payment of declared dividends) 
and creditors;
 
• Reviewing the functioning of the whistle 
blower mechanism;
 
• Monitoring the end use of funds raised 
through 
public 
offers 
and 
related 
matters; overseeing the vigil mechanism 
established by the Company, with the 
chairman of the Audit Committee directly 
hearing grievances of victimization of 
employees and Directors, who used vigil 
mechanism to report genuine concerns 
in appropriate and exceptional cases;
 
• Approval 
of 
appointment 
of 
chief 
financial 
officer 
(i.e., 
the 
whole-
time finance Director or any other 
person heading the finance function 
or 
discharging 
that 
function) 
after 
assessing the qualifications, experience 
and background, etc. of the candidate;
 
• Reviewing the utilization of loans and/
or advances from/investment by the 
holding company in the subsidiary 
exceeding ₹1,000,000,000 or 10% of the 
asset size of the subsidiary, whichever is 
lower including existing loans/ advances/ 
investments existing as on the date of 
coming into force of this provision;
 
• Considering 
and 
commenting 
on 
rationale, cost benefits and impact of 
schemes involving merger, demerger, 
amalgamation etc., on the listed entity 
and its shareholders; and
 
• Carrying out any other function required 
to be carried out by the Audit Committee 
as may be decided by the Board and/or as 
provided under the Act, the SEBI Listing 
Regulations or any other applicable law, 
as and when amended from time to time.
C.	 The Audit Committee shall mandatorily 
review the following information:
 
• Management discussion and analysis 
of financial condition and results of 
operations;
 
• Statement of significant related party 
transactions (as defined by the Audit 
Committee), submitted by management;
 
• Management letters / letters of internal 
control weaknesses issued by the 
statutory auditors;
 
• Internal audit reports relating to internal 
control weaknesses;
 
• The appointment, removal and terms 
of remuneration of the chief internal 
auditor; and

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 105
Annual Report 
2023
82
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
 
• Statement of deviations in terms of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations:
 
 
a) quarterly statement of deviation(s) 
including report of monitoring agency, 
if applicable, submitted to stock 
exchange(s) where the Equity Shares 
are proposed to be listed in terms of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations; and
 
 
b) annual statement of funds utilised 
for purposes other than those stated 
in the offer document/ prospectus/ 
notice in terms of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations.
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
As on March 31, 2023, Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee 
comprised 
of 
3 (three) Non-Executive Directors out of whom  
2 
(two) 
are 
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Directors and 1 (one) is Non-Executive Non-
Independent Director. Mr. Ashit Ranjit Lilani, 
Non-Executive Independent Director is the 
Chairman of the Committee.
During FY 2022-23, the following changes 
occurred in the composition of the Committee: 
a) Mr. Douglas Feagin, Non-Executive Non-
Independent Director, ceased to be the 
member of the Committee w.e.f. February 2, 
2023;
b) Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli, Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director was appointed 
as the member of the Committee w.e.f. 
February 3, 2023.
The 
composition 
of 
the 
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration Committee meets the requirements 
of Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 19 of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations. The Company Secretary 
acts as the Secretary of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee. 
During FY 2022-23, the Committee met 6 (six) 
times viz., on April 01, 2022, May 01, 2022, May 
20, 2022, August 01, 2022, November 01, 2022 
and January 31, 2023.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 106
Annual Report 
2023
83
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
S.
No.
Date of Committee 
meeting
Name of the Committee Members
Mr. Ashit Ranjit 
Lilani, Chairman 
(Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director)
Mr. Neeraj 
Arora (Non- 
Executive 
Independent 
Director)
Mr. Ravi Chandra 
Adusumalli (Non-
Executive Non-
Independent 
Director)
Mr. Douglas 
Feagin (Non-
Executive Non-
Independent 
Director)
1
April 1, 2022
Yes
Leave of 
absence
NA*
Yes
2
May 01, 2022
Yes
Yes
NA*
Yes
3
May 20, 2022
Yes
Leave of 
absence
NA*
Yes
4
August 01, 2022
Yes
Yes
NA*
Yes
5
November 01, 2022
Yes
Yes
NA*
Yes
6
January 31, 2023
Yes
Yes
NA*
Leave of 
absence
Number of meetings 
attended (total held during 
tenure)
6(6)
4(6)
0(0)
5(6)
The details relating to remuneration of Directors, 
as required under the SEBI Listing Regulations 
have been given under a separate section, viz. 
‘Directors Remuneration’ in this Report.
Terms of Reference
• Formulation of the criteria for determining 
qualifications, 
positive 
attributes 
and 
independence of a director and recommend 
to the board of directors of the Company 
Board policy relating to the remuneration of 
the directors, key managerial personnel and 
other employees (“Remuneration Policy”); 
• Formulation of criteria for evaluation of 
performance of independent directors and 
the Board;
• Devising a policy on Board diversity;
• Identifying persons who are qualified to 
become directors and who may be appointed 
in senior management in accordance with 
the criteria laid down, and recommend to the 
Board their appointment and removal and 
carrying out evaluation of every director’s 
performance (including independent director);
• Whether to extend or continue the term of 
appointment of the independent director, 
on the basis of the report of performance 
evaluation of independent directors;
• Recommend to the board, all remuneration, 
in 
whatever 
form, 
payable 
to 
senior 
management;
• The 
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration 
Committee, 
while 
formulating 
the 
Remuneration Policy, should ensure that —
The composition and the attendance of members at the meetings held during FY 2022-23, are 
given below:
* Not applicable as Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli was appointed as the member of the Committee w.e.f. February 03, 2023.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 107
Annual Report 
2023
84
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
 
a) the level and composition of remuneration 
be reasonable and sufficient to attract, 
retain and motivate directors of the 
quality required to run the Company 
successfully;
 
b) relationship 
of 
remuneration 
to 
performance 
is 
clear 
and 
meets 
appropriate performance benchmarks; 
and
 
c) remuneration to directors, key managerial 
personnel 
and 
senior 
management 
involves a balance between fixed and 
incentive pay reflecting short and long 
term performance objectives appropriate 
to the working of the Company and its 
goals.
• Perform such functions as are required 
to be performed by the Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee 
under 
the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021, as amended, 
including the following:
 
a) administering the One 97 Employee Stock 
Option Scheme 2008, One 97 Employee 
Stock Option Scheme 2019 (the “Plans”);
 
b) determining the eligibility of employees 
to participate under the Plans;
 
c) granting options to eligible employees 
and determining the date of grant;
 
d) determining the number of options to be 
granted to an employee;
 
e) determining the exercise price under the 
Plans; and
 
f) construing and interpreting the Plans 
and any agreements defining the rights 
and obligations of the Company and 
eligible employees under the Plans, and 
prescribing, amending and/or rescinding 
rules and regulations relating to the 
administration of the Plans.
 
g) Approving 
allotment 
of 
shares 
consequent to exercise of employee 
stock options under the Plans.
• Frame suitable policies, procedures and 
systems to ensure that there is no violation 
of securities laws, as amended from time to 
time, including:
 
a) the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015; and
 
b) the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and 
Unfair Trade Practices Relating to the 
Securities Market) Regulations, 2003, 
by the trust, the Company and its 
employees, as applicable. 
• Carrying out any other activities as may be 
delegated by the Board of Directors of the 
Company functions required to be carried 
out by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee as provided under the Act, 
the SEBI Listing Regulations or any other 
applicable law, as and when amended from 
time to time.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 108
Annual Report 
2023
85
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
S.
No.
Date of Committee 
meeting
Name of the Committee Members
Mrs. Pallavi Shardul 
Shroff, Chairperson 
(Non-Executive 
Independent Director)
Mr. Madhur Deora 
(Executive Director, 
President and Group 
Chief Financial Officer)
Mr. Ashit Ranjit Lilani 
(Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director)
1
March 30, 2023
Yes
Yes
Leave of absence
Number of meetings 
attended (total held during 
tenure)
1(1)
1(1)
0(1)
Terms of Reference
• Considering and looking into various aspects 
of interest of shareholders, debenture 
holders and other security holders;
• Resolving the grievances of the security 
holders of the listed entity including 
complaints related to transfer/ transmission 
of shares, non-receipt of annual report, non-
receipt of declared dividends, issue of new/ 
duplicate certificates, general meetings etc.;
During FY 2022-23, the Committee met once on March 30, 2023. The composition and the 
attendance of members at the meeting are given below:
Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
As on March 31, 2023, the Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee 
comprised 
of 
3 (three) Directors out of whom 2 (two) are 
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Directors 
and 
1 (one) is Executive Director. Mrs. Pallavi Shardul 
Shroff, Non-Executive Independent Director is 
the Chairperson of the Committee.
During FY 2022-23, the following changes 
occurred in the composition of the Committee:
a) Mr. Douglas Feagin, Non-Executive Non-
Independent Director ceased to be the 
member of the Committee w.e.f. February 2, 
2023; and
b) Mr. Madhur Deora, Executive Director, 
President and Group Chief Financial Officer 
was appointed as the member of the 
Committee w.e.f. February 3, 2023.
The composition of the Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee meets the requirements of Section 
178 of the Act and Regulation 20 of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations. The Company Secretary acts 
as the Secretary of the Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee.
• Giving effect to allotment of equity shares, 
approval of transfer or transmission of equity 
shares, debentures or any other securities; 
• 
Issue of duplicate certificates and new 
certificates on split/consolidation/renewal, etc.;
• Review of measures taken for effective 
exercise of voting rights by shareholders;
• Review 
of 
adherence 
to 
the 
service 
standards adopted by the listed entity in 
respect of various services being rendered 
by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent;

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 109
Annual Report 
2023
86
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
• Review of the various measures and initiatives 
taken by the listed entity for reducing 
the quantum of unclaimed dividends and 
ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants/
annual reports/statutory notices by the 
shareholders of the company; and
• Carrying out any other function required 
to be carried out by the Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee as contained in 
the SEBI Listing Regulations or any other 
applicable law, as and when amended from 
time to time
Compliance Officer
During FY 2022-23, Mr. Amit Khera, Company 
Secretary & Compliance Officer of the Company 
(ICSI Membership No.: A10827) resigned w.e.f. 
March 14, 2023. In the interim period, Ms. Sonali 
Singh, a qualified Company Secretary (ICSI 
Membership No.: A26585) was appointed as 
Interim Compliance Officer of the Company.
Further, 
Mr. 
Sunil 
Kumar 
Bansal 
(ICSI 
Membership No.: F4810) was appointed as the 
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer of 
the Company with effect from July 21, 2023. 
Consequent to the said appointment, Ms. Sonali 
Singh (ICSI Membership No.: A26585) ceased 
to be the Interim Compliance Officer of the 
Company with immediate effect. 
Nature of Complaints and Redressal 
Status
During FY 2022-23, the complaints and queries 
received by the Company were general in 
nature, which included issues relating to Lock-
in of shares, receipt of annual reports, Buy- 
back and others, which were resolved by the 
Company to the satisfaction of the investors.
Status of Investor Complaints
Pending at the beginning of FY 2022-23
02
Received during FY 2022-23
17
Disposed off during FY 2022-23
19
Pending at the end of FY 2022-23
Nil
Complaints not resolved to the satisfaction of investor
Nil
The details of investors complaints received and redressed, during FY 2022-23, are as follows:

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 110
Annual Report 
2023
87
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Risk Management Committee
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
As on March 31, 2023, the Risk Management 
Committee comprised of 4 (four) Directors out of 
whom 3 (three) are Non-Executive Independent 
Directors and 1 (one) Executive Director. 
Mr. 
Gopalasamudram 
Srinivasaraghavan 
Sundararajan, 
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director is Chairman of the Committee.
During FY 2022-23, the following changes 
occurred in the composition of the Committee:
a) Mr. Deepankar Sanwalka, President ceased 
to be the member of the Committee w.e.f. 
May 20, 2022;
b) Mr. 
Gopalasamudram 
Srinivasaraghavan 
Sundararajan, Non-Executive Independent 
Director was appointed as the member and 
Chairman of the Committee w.e.f. August 
29, 2022; and
c) Mr. 
Mark 
Schwartz, 
Non-Executive 
Independent Director ceased to be the 
member and Chairman of the Committee 
w.e.f. August 29, 2022.
The composition of the Risk Management 
Committee 
meets 
the 
requirements 
of 
Regulation 21 of the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary 
of the Risk Management Committee.
During FY 2022-23, the Committee met three 
(3) times viz. August 29, 2022, February 16, 
2023, and March 24, 2023.
S.
No.
Date of Committee 
meeting
Name of the Committee Members
Mr. Gopalasamudram 
Srinivasaraghavan 
Sundararajan, 
Chairman (Non-
Executive 
Independent 
Director)
Mr. Vijay 
Shekhar Sharma 
(Chairman, 
Managing 
Director and 
Chief Executive 
Officer)
Mrs. Pallavi 
Shardul 
Shroff (Non- 
Executive 
Independent 
Director)
Mr. Ashit 
Ranjit Lilani 
(Non-
Executive 
Independent 
Director)
1
August 29, 2022
Yes
Leave of absence
Leave of 
absence
Yes
2
February 16, 2023
Yes
Leave of absence
Yes
Yes
3
March 24, 2023
Yes
Yes
Leave of 
absence
Leave of 
absence
Number of meetings 
attended (total held during 
tenure)
3(3)
1(3)
1(3)
2(3)
The composition of the Committee and the attendance of members at the meetings held during FY 
2022-23, are given below:

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 111
Annual Report 
2023
88
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Terms of Reference
• Formulation of a detailed risk management 
policy which shall include:
 
a) A 
framework 
for 
identification 
of 
internal and external risks specifically 
faced by the listed entity, in particular 
including financial, operational, sectoral, 
sustainability (particularly, ESG related 
risks), information, cyber security risks 
or any other risk as may be determined 
by the Risk Management Committee;
 
b) measures for risk mitigation including 
systems and processes for internal 
control of identified risks; and business 
continuity plan;
• Ensure 
that 
appropriate 
methodology, 
processes and systems are in place to 
monitor and evaluate risks associated with 
the business of the Company;
• Monitor and oversee implementation of the 
risk management policy, including evaluating 
the adequacy of risk management systems;
• Periodically review the risk management 
policy, at least once in two years, including by 
considering the changing industry dynamics 
and evolving complexity, and recommend 
for any amendment or modification thereof, 
as necessary;
• Keep 
the 
Board 
informed 
about 
the 
nature and content of its discussions, 
recommendations and actions to be taken;
• 
Review the appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer (if any).
• To implement and monitor policies and/or 
processes for ensuring cyber security; and
• Any other similar or other functions as may 
be laid down by Board from time to time and/
or as may be required under applicable law, 
as and when amended from time to time, 
including the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee (“CSR”)
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
As on March 31, 2023, Corporate Social 
Responsibility (“CSR”) Committee comprised 
of 3 (three) Directors out of whom 1 (one) is 
Non-Executive Independent Director, one (1) is 
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director, and 
1 (one) is Executive Director. Mr. Vijay Shekhar 
Sharma, Chairman, Managing Director and 
Chief Executive Officer of the Company is the 
Chairman of the CSR Committee.
During FY 2022-23, the following changes 
occurred in the composition of the CSR 
Committee:
a) Mr. 
Gopalasamudram 
Srinivasaraghavan 
Sundararajan, Non-Executive Independent 
Director, was appointed as the member of 
the Committee w.e.f. August 29, 2022; and
b) Mr. Mark Schwartz, Non-Executive Independent 
Director, ceased to be the member of the 
Committee w.e.f. August 29, 2022.
The composition of the CSR Committee meets 
the requirements of Section 135 of the Act. 
During FY 2022-23, no CSR Committee meeting 
was held.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 112
Annual Report 
2023
89
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
As on March 31, 2023, the composition of the 
CSR Committee is as follows:
1. Mr. 
Vijay 
Shekhar 
Sharma 
(Chairman, 
Managing Director and Chief Executive 
Officer)-Chairman
2. Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli (Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director)
3. Mr. 
Gopalasamudram 
Srinivasaraghavan 
Sundararajan (Non-Executive Independent 
Director)
Key Responsibilities of the CSR 
Committee
During FY 2022-23, the Committee was 
authorised to perform the following functions, 
as approved by the Board on July 5, 2021 and 
further revised on March 31, 2023 respectively:
• Formulate and recommend to the Board, a 
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy which 
shall indicate the activities to be undertaken 
by the Company as specified in Schedule VII 
of the Act, as amended; 
• Review and recommend the amount of 
expenditure to be incurred on the CSR 
activities;
• Monitor the corporate social responsibility 
policy of the Company and its implementation 
from time to time;
• Monitor the Company’s ESG framework, 
strategy, goals and disclosures;
• Constitute 
an 
ESG 
sub-committee 
(management level Committee) which will 
provide an oversight on key policies and 
programs required to implement ESG strategy 
as well as monitor its execution; and
• Any other matter as the Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee 
may 
deem 
appropriate after approval of the Board or 
as may be directed by the Board from time 
to time and/or as may be required under 
applicable law, as and when amended from 
time to time.
Other Committees
Apart from the above statutory committees, the 
Board had constituted the following committees 
to meet the specific business needs:
• Investment Committee
• IPO Committee
• Buy-back Committee
Investment Committee
As on March 31, 2023, Investment Committee 
comprised of 3 (three) Directors out of whom 
1 (one) is Non-Executive Independent Director, 
1 (one) is Non-Executive Non-Independent 
Director, and 1 (one) is Executive Director.
During FY 2022-23, Mr. Douglas Feagin, Non-
Executive Non-Independent Director ceased to 
be the member of the Committee w.e.f. February 
2, 2023.
During FY 2022-23, the Committee met 2 (two) 
times viz. April 26, 2022 and March 24, 2023.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 113
Annual Report 
2023
90
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
The composition of the Committee and the attendance of members at the meetings held during FY 
2022-23, are given below:
S.
No.
Date of 
Committee 
meeting
Name of the Committee Members
Mr. Vijay Shekhar 
Sharma (Chairman, 
Managing Director 
and Chief Executive 
Officer)
Mr. Neeraj 
Arora (Non- 
Executive 
Independent 
Director)
Mr. Ravi Chandra 
Adusumalli (Non-
Executive Non-
Independent 
Director)
Mr. Douglas 
Feagin (Non-
Executive Non-
Independent 
Director)
1
April 26, 2022
Leave of absence
Yes
Yes
Yes
2
March 24, 2023
Yes
Yes
Yes
NA*
Number of meetings 
attended (total held 
during tenure)
1(2)
2(2)
2(2)
1(1)
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary 
of the Investment Committee.
Terms of Reference
• To take various investment decisions of the 
Company.
• Recommendation/approval to invest or sell 
investments.
• To frame various policies pertaining to 
strategic investment of the Company.
• And any other functions as the Board may 
assign to it from time to time.
IPO Committee
An IPO Committee was constituted by the Board 
on June 14, 2021 and delegated with powers to 
do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as it 
may in its absolute discretion deem necessary, 
expedient, usual or proper in relation to the 
IPO of the Company, which was completed on 
November 18, 2021.
As on March 31, 2023, IPO Committee comprises 
of Mrs. Pallavi Shardul Shroff, Non-Executive 
Independent Director and Mr. Vijay Shekhar 
Sharma, Managing Director and Chief Executive 
Officer.
Mr. 
Douglas 
Feagin, 
Non-Executive 
Non-
Independent Director, ceased to be the member 
of the Committee w.e.f. February 2, 2023;
During FY 2022-23, No IPO Committee meeting 
was held. The Company Secretary acts as the 
Secretary of the IPO Committee.
Consequent upon completion of IPO and listing 
of shares of the Company w.e.f. November 18, 
2021, the Board at its meeting held on July 21, 
2023 dissolved the IPO Committee.
Buy-back Committee
The Board at its meeting held on December 
13, 2022 constituted a Buy-back Committee 
and delegated the powers to carry out all Buy-
back related activities. The Committee was 
authorised to do all such acts, deeds, matters 
and things as it may in its absolute discretion 
deem necessary, expedient, usual or proper in 
relation to the Buy-back.
The 
Buy-back 
Committee 
comprises 
of 
3 (three) Directors out of whom 2 (two) are 
Executive Directors and 1 (one) is Non-Executive 
Independent Director.
* Not applicable as Mr. Douglas Feagin resigned as Non- Executive Non-Independent Director w.e.f. February 02, 2023.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 114
Annual Report 
2023
91
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
S.
No.
Date of Committee 
meeting
Name of the Committee Members
Mr. Gopalasamudram 
Srinivasaraghavan 
Sundararajan (Non-
Executive Independent 
Director)
Mr. Vijay Shekhar 
Sharma (Chairman, 
Managing Director 
and Chief Executive 
Officer)
Mr. Madhur 
Deora (Executive 
Director, 
President and 
Group Chief 
Financial Officer)
1
January 20, 2023
Yes
Yes
Yes
2
February 13, 2023
Yes
Yes
Yes
Number of meetings attended 
(total held during tenure)
2(2)
2(2)
2(2)
Terms of Reference
• seek regulatory approvals, if required, for 
implementing the Buy-back;
• finalise of the terms of the Buy-back, including 
the opening and closing dates of the Buy-
back, the price and number of Equity Shares to 
be bought back under the Buy- back, subject 
to the terms approved under this resolution 
and in compliance with the provisions of the 
Act and the SEBI Buy-back Regulations;
• negotiate, 
finalise 
and/or 
execute 
agreements in accordance with SEBI Buy-
back Regulations;
• open, operate and close all necessary 
accounts, such as broker account and any 
other bank account(s), for the purpose of 
the Buy-back;
• arrangement for adequate resources of 
funds for the Buy-back as may be necessary 
in accordance with the applicable law and 
arrange for bank guarantee and/or cash 
deposits as may be necessary for the escrow 
account for the Buy-back, in accordance 
with applicable law;
• take 
all 
actions 
for 
the 
verification, 
acceptance and extinguishment of the 
Equity Shares bought back under the Buy-
back, in accordance with the applicable law;
• pay consideration to the shareholders for 
the Equity Shares bought back pursuant to 
the Buy-back and/or issue rejection letters, 
if any;
• decide closure of the Buy-back and 
complete all other requisite formalities as 
specified under the Act, the SEBI Buy-back 
Regulations, the SEBI Listing Regulations 
and other applicable laws;
• authorize and make payment of expenses 
incidental to the Buy-back;
• withdraw, postpone or to decide not to 
proceed with the Buy-back, in accordance 
with the applicable law, including the SEBI 
Buy-back Regulations;
During FY 2022-23, the Buy-back Committee met 2 (two) times viz. January 20, 2023 and February 
13, 2023. The composition of the Committee and the attendance of members at the meetings held 
during FY 2022-23, are given below:

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 115
Annual Report 
2023
92
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
• carry out management discussion and 
analysis on the likely impact of the Buy-back 
on the Company's earnings, public holdings, 
holdings of NRls/Flls, etc.;
• execute, sign, affirm and deliver all such 
documents, including consent letter, power 
of 
attorney, 
certificates, 
instruments, 
agreements, 
letters, 
undertakings, 
memorandum 
of 
understanding, 
declarations, affidavits, indemnity, bank 
guarantee, etc., as may be required in 
connection with this resolution, the Buy-
back and/or such other purposes as may be 
considered by the Buy-back Committee to 
be in the best interest of the Company;
• furnish and make disclosures, certificates, 
returns, confirmations, etc., as may be 
required under the Act the SEBI Buy-back 
Regulations, the SEBI Listing Regulations 
and/or other applicable law;
• appoint advertisement agency(ies), printers 
agency(ies), escrow agent(s)and such other 
person(s) / consultant(s) for the Buy-back as 
may be required or as the Buy-back Committee 
may deem fit, necessary or proper; 
• fix/ decide the remuneration, including 
commission, brokerage, fees, charges etc., 
and other terms and conditions for the 
appointment of professionals, firms, etc., as 
may be required for undertaking the Buy-
back;
• settle any question or difficulty that may 
arise with regard to the aforesaid purpose 
and which it may deem fit in the best interest 
of the Company;
• file copies of the offer documents (and any 
revision thereto) as may be required under 
applicable law in relation to the Buy-back 
with SEBI, the Stock Exchanges and other 
Appropriate Authorities; and
• do all such acts, deeds and things as may be 
necessary, expedient and incidental for the 
implementation of, and undertaking, the Buy.-
back in accordance with the Act, the SEBI Buy-
back Regulations and other applicable law.
Consequent upon completion of Buy-back of 
shares of the Company on February 13, 2023, 
the Board at its meeting held on July 21, 2023 
dissolved the Buy-back Committee.
Name of employee
Designation
Mr. Bhavesh Gupta*
SVP - Business Management
Mr. Manmeet Singh Dhody**
CTO - Payments
Mr. Praveen Sharma
SVP - Business
Mr. Sanjeev Garg***
SVP - Finance
Mr. Srinivas Yanamandra***
Head of Compliance
Ms. Urvashi Sahai***
General Counsel
a.	 Senior Management as on March 31, 2023
Particulars of the Senior Management of the Company including the 
changes therein
*Mr. Bhavesh Gupta was re-designated as President & Chief Operating Officer w.e.f. May 16, 2023.
**Mr. Manmeet Singh was re-designated as CTO Paytm w.e.f. April 01, 2023.
***The employee was recognised as Senior Management during FY 2022-23

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 116
Annual Report 
2023
93
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Name of employee
Designation
Date of 
Change
Appointed/ 
Resigned
Mr. Deepankar Sanwalka
President – Compliance & Operations
May 31, 2022
Resigned
Mr. Amit Khera
Company Secretary and Compliance 
Officer
March 14, 2023
Resigned
b.	 Changes in Senior Management during FY 2022-23
Financial 
year
Location
Date
Time Special Resolutions passed
2021-22
Through 
Video 
Conference
August 19, 
2022
04:30 
p.m. 
(IST)
1. Payment of remuneration of Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma 
(DIN: 00466521), Managing Director and Chief 
Executive Officer of the Company
2. Payment of remuneration of Mr. Madhur Deora 
(DIN: 07720350), Whole-time Director designated 
as ‘Executive Director, President and Group Chief 
Financial Officer’ of the Company
2020-21
Through 
Video 
Conference
June 30, 
2021
11:00 
a.m. 
(IST)
1. Re-appointment of Mrs. Pallavi Shardul Shroff, as a 
Non-Executive Independent Director
2. Remuneration of Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Managing 
Director for FY 2021- 22
3. Subscription of optionally convertible debentures 
issued by VSS Holdings Private Limited
4. Grant of inter-corporate deposit/ loan to VSS Investco 
Private Limited
2019-20
First Floor, 
Devika 
Tower, 
Nehru 
Place,
New Delhi- 
110019
September 
25, 2020
10:00
a.m.
(IST)
No Special Resolution passed in the 20th AGM
General Body Meetings
Annual General Meetings
The details of the Annual General Meetings held during last three years and the special resolution(s) 
passed thereat, are as follows: 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 117
Annual Report 
2023
94
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Item 
No.
Description
Type of 
Resolution
No. of Votes 
Polled
Votes in Favour
Votes Against
No. of Votes
%
No. of Votes
%
1.
Approval of Material 
Related Party 
Transactions with 
Paytm Payments Bank 
Limited
Ordinary 
Resolution
100,066,747
99,913,163
99.85
153,584
0.15
Postal Ballot
During FY 2022-23, two (2) Postal Ballots were conducted by the Company for seeking the approvals 
of the Members. The details of the Postal Ballots conducted are mentioned below:
Postal Ballot 1:
Date of Postal Ballot Notice: February 03, 2023
Voting period: February 22, 2023 at 9:00 a.m. (IST) to March 23, 2023 at 5:00 p.m. (IST)
Date of Declaration of Results: March 24, 2023
Voting Pattern:
Postal Ballot 2:
Date of Postal Ballot Notice: August 27, 2022
Voting period: October 22, 2022 at 9:00 a.m. (IST) to November 20, 2022 at 5:00 p.m. (IST).
Date of Declaration of Results: November 22, 2022
Voting Pattern:
Item 
No.
Description
Type of 
Resolution
No. of Votes 
Polled
Votes in Favour
Votes Against
No. of Votes
%
No. of Votes
%
1.
Approval for appointment 
of Mr. Gopalasamudram 
Srinivasaraghavan 
Sundararajan 
(DIN:00361030), as a Non-
Executive Independent 
Director of the Company
Special 
Resolution
550,239,605 550,160,649 99.99
78,956
0.01

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 118
Annual Report 
2023
95
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Procedure for Postal Ballot
In compliance with Regulation 44 of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, Section 108, 110 and other 
applicable provisions of the Act read with the 
Companies (Management and Administration) 
Rules, 2014 read with applicable general 
circulars issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, 
the Postal Ballot Notice was sent only by way of 
email to those Members whose e-mail ids were 
registered with the Depository Participants / Link 
Intime India Private Limited, Company’s Registrar 
and Share Transfer Agent (“RTA”). The physical 
copy of the Notice along with the Postal Ballot 
Form and prepaid business reply envelope were 
not sent to the Members for these postal ballots 
in accordance with MCA Circulars.
The Company had appointed RTA for providing the 
e-voting facility to all its Members. The Company 
also published a notice in the newspapers 
declaring the details and requirements as 
mandated by the Act and applicable rules.
Voting Rights were in proportion to the shares 
held by Members whose names appeared in the 
Register of Members/ List of Beneficial Owners 
in the total paid-up equity share capital of 
Company as on the cut-off date. Members were 
requested to vote through remote e-voting only 
on or before the close of voting period.
Mr. Ankit Singhi (C.P No.: 16274), and failing 
him Mr. Nitesh Latwal (C.P No.: 16276) 
Company Secretary in Practice and Partner of 
M/s. PI & Associates, Company Secretaries 
was appointed as Scrutinizer for conducting 
the postal ballot/e-voting process in a fair and 
transparent manner.
The scrutinizer completed the scrutiny and 
submitted his report to the Chairman and 
consolidated 
results 
of 
the 
voting 
were 
announced 
by 
the 
Chairman. 
Thereafter, 
the results of the postal ballot along with the 
scrutiniser’s report were displayed at the 
registered office of the Company, hosted 
at 
https://ir.paytm.com/postal-ballot, 
RTA’s 
website and were also communicated to stock 
exchanges.
No resolution is proposed for approval of the 
Members by way of Postal Ballot as on the date 
of this report.
Codes, Policies and Frameworks
Code of Conduct
In compliance with the provisions of the Act and 
Regulation 17 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
the Company has framed and adopted a 
code of conduct for all Directors and Senior 
Management Personnel (“Code”).
Item 
No.
Description
Type of 
Resolution
No. of Votes 
Polled
Votes in Favour
Votes Against
No. of Votes
%
No. of Votes
%
2.
Approval for payment 
of remuneration to 
Mr. Gopalasamudram 
Srinivasaraghavan 
Sundararajan 
(DIN:00361030), as a Non-
Executive Independent 
Director of the Company
Special 
Resolution
550,239,576 515,637,590 93.71
34,601,986 6.29

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 119
Annual Report 
2023
96
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
The Code is applicable to all the Board members 
and Senior Management Personnel. The Code 
is circulated to all Board members and Senior 
Management Personnel and its compliance 
is affirmed by them annually. Besides, the 
Company also procures a quarterly confirmation 
of material financial and commercial transactions 
entered into by Senior Management Personnel 
with the Company that may have a potential 
conflict of interest. A declaration signed by 
the Chairman, Managing Director and Chief 
Executive Officer, regarding affirmation of the 
compliance with the Code by Board members 
and Senior Management for FY 2022-23, is 
provided in Annexure A to this report.
The Code is available on website of the Company 
at https://ir.paytm.com/policies-and-guidelines.
Insider Trading
In compliance with the provisions of SEBI 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 
(“PIT Regulations”), the Company has formulated a 
Code of Conduct for prohibition of Insider Trading 
(“PIT Code”) to regulate and monitor trading by 
Designated Persons (“DPs”) and their immediate 
relatives. The Company has voluntarily adopted 
a regime, which is stricter than what is statutorily 
prescribed, to comply with PIT Regulations in 
letter and spirit e.g. all the transactions done by 
DPs require pre-clearance irrespective of value or 
quantum. The PIT Code, inter-alia, lays down the 
procedures to be followed by DPs while trading/ 
dealing in Company shares and while sharing 
Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (“UPSI”). 
The PIT Code includes, inter-alia, the obligations 
and responsibilities of DPs, obligations and 
responsibilities of the Company to maintain a 
structural digital database, a mechanism for 
prevention of insider trading and handling of 
UPSI, process to familiarise the DPs with the 
sensitivity of UPSI, educate the DPs in relation to 
transactions which are prohibited and manner in 
which permitted transactions shall be carried out.
The Company conducts frequent workshops/ 
training sessions and periodically circulates 
informative e-mails to educate and sensitise the 
DPs to familiarise them with the provisions of 
the PIT Code and compliance requirements.
Corporate policies
The Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
stipulate formulation of certain policies for 
all listed companies. The website links of key 
policies / codes adopted by the Company are 
provided in Annexure B to this report.
Means of Communication
Effective communication of information is an 
essential component of Corporate Governance. 
It is a process of sharing information, ideas, 
thoughts, opinions and plans to all stakeholders 
which 
promotes 
management-shareholder 
relations. The Company believes that all 
stakeholders should have access to complete 
information regarding its position to enable 
them to accurately assess its future potential. 
Accordingly, 
the 
Company 
disseminates 
information on its operations and initiatives on 
a regular basis.
a)	Quarterly financial results
 
The quarterly financial results are published 
in widely circulated national newspapers 
such as Financial Express (English daily) and 
Jansatta (Hindi daily - vernacular). The said 
results are promptly submitted to the Stock 
Exchanges for display on their respective 
websites and are also available on the 
Company’s website at https://ir.paytm.com/
financial-results.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 120
Annual Report 
2023
97
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
b)	Official news releases
 
Official news releases and media releases 
are sent to Stock Exchanges and available on 
the Company’s website at https://ir.paytm.
com/stock-exchange-filings.
c)	Earning Calls & presentations to 
Institutional Investors/ Analysts
 
The Company organises earnings conference 
calls with analysts and investors after the 
announcement of financial results. The 
transcript and audio of quarterly earnings 
calls is uploaded on the Company’s website 
as well as filed with the stock exchanges 
D.	General Shareholder Information
Date, Time and Venue of the AGM
Tuesday, September 12, 2023 at 09:00 a.m. (IST) through 
Video Conferencing/Other Audio Visual Means facility
CIN
L72200DL2000PLC108985
ISIN
INE982J01020
Registered office Address
First Floor, Devika Tower, Nehru Place, New Delhi 110 019, 
India
Financial Calendar
April 1 to March 31
Adoption of Financial Results (Tentative Schedule, subject to change)
For the quarter ending June 30, 2023
July 21, 2023
For the quarter and half year ending 
September 30, 2023
on or before November 14, 2023
For the quarter and nine months 
ending December 31, 2023
on or before February 14, 2024
For the fourth quarter and financial 
year ending March 31, 2024
on or before May 30, 2024
Trading window closure for Financial 
Results
From the 1st day after close of quarter till the completion 
of 48 hours after the Financial Results becomes generally 
available
Date of Book Closure
N.A.
Dividend and Dividend Payment Date
N.A.
where the equity shares of the Company are 
listed, which is accessible to all the Members 
and general public.
d)	Website: The Company’s website https://
ir.paytm.com/ contains a dedicated section 
for Investors where annual reports, earnings 
press releases, stock exchange filings, 
quarterly reports, and policies are available, 
apart from the details about the Company, 
Board of Directors and its Committees.
e)	E-mail: The Company has also designated 
the e-mail ID compliance.officer@paytm.
com exclusively for investor services.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 121
Annual Report 
2023
98
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Equity Shares Listing, Stock Code and Listing Fee Payment
Name and address of the Stock Exchange
Scrip code
Status of fee paid 
for FY 2022-23
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”)
Exchange Plaza, C-1 Block G Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra, 
Mumbai - 400001
PAYTM
Yes
BSE Limited (“BSE”)
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai - 400001
543396
Yes
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent 
All the functions related to share registry, both in 
physical and electronic form, are handled by the 
RTA i.e. Link Intime India Private Limited as per 
the particulars mentioned in the communication 
details section of this report.
Share Transfer System
During FY 2022-23, Link Intime India Private 
Limited, RTA of the Company ensured compliance 
with all the procedural requirements with respect 
to transfer, transmission and transposition 
of shares and formalities with respect to 
name deletion, sub-division, consolidation, 
renewal, exchange and endorsement of share 
certificates.
SEBI has mandated that securities of listed 
companies 
can 
be 
transferred 
only 
in 
dematerialised form. Accordingly, the Company 
/ its RTA are not accepting any lodgement of 
transfer of shares in physical form. Members 
holding shares in physical form are advised to 
avail the facility of dematerialisation. However, 
investors are not barred from holding shares 
in physical form. Transfers in electronic form 
are much simpler and quicker as the Members 
have to approach their respective depository 
participants and the transfers are processed 
by NSDL/ CDSL, as the case may be, with no 
requirement of any separate communication to 
be made to the Company.
The listing fees for FY 2023-24 has been paid by the Company to the NSE and BSE.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 122
Annual Report 
2023
99
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Stock Market Data for the period ended March 31, 2023
S.No Shareholder’s Name
Shares
% of 
shareholding
1.
Antfin (Netherlands) Holding B.V.
158,080,740
24.94
2.
SVF India Holdings (Cayman) Limited
81,610,229
12.88
3.
SAIF III Mauritius Company Limited
68,735,489
10.85
4.
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma
57,845,053
9.13
5.
Axis Trustee Services Limited
30,970,406
4.89
6.
SAIF Partners India IV Limited
29,180,478
4.60
7.
BH International Holdings
15,623,529
2.47
8.
Mirae Asset Mutual Funds
11,396,024
1.80
9.
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board
11,085,832
1.75
10.
Fidelity Investment Trust Fidelity Series Emerging Markets 
Opportunities Fund
5,781,100
0.91
Month
BSE
NSE
High Price
Low Price
Volume
High Price
Low Price
Volume
Apr-22
720.65
530.65 12,243,704
719.70
530.00
161,632,478
May-22
664.35
511.00
7,173,348
664.00
510.05
95,398,459
Jun-22
723.55
578.50
5,250,718
723.60
578.00
87,670,116
Jul-22
763.00
580.00
4,012,965
763.30
632.00
59,085,367
Aug-22
844.40
706.65
3,902,107
844.70
707.45
62,299,048
Sep-22
747.75
627.60
2,148,657
748.00
629.55
25,272,935
Oct-22
745.00
624.65
1,508,897
745.45
625.00
18,610,302
Nov-22
668.45
439.60
13,319,572
668.40
438.35
202,392,054
Dec-22
554.70
472.00
9,038,793
554.45
472.00
133,171,155
Jan-23
583.95
502.65
6,207,711
583.75
508.10
105,734,930
Feb-23
738.60
516.00
12,291,367
738.70
515.25
230,460,563
Mar-23
655.80
556.30
6,065,793
655.90
556.05
97,959,384
List of Top 10 Shareholders as on March 31, 2023

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 123
Annual Report 
2023
100
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
No. of Equity Shares held
No. of 
Shareholders
% to total 
Shareholders
No. of 
Shares
% of total 
Shares
1 - 5,000
1,119,507
99.91
46,117,700
7.27
5,001 - 10,000
475
0.04
3,365,872
0.53
10,001 - 20,000
216
0.02
3,085,423
0.49
20,001 - 30,000
78
0.01
1,955,195
0.31
30,001 - 40,000
47
0.00
1,655,400
0.26
40,001 - 50,000
33
0.00
1,505,426
0.24
50,001 - 100,000
66
0.01
4,826,440
0.76
100,001 & above
144
0.01
571,276,761
90.14
Total
1,120,566
100.00 633,788,217
100.00
Performance of the Company in comparison to NSE Nifty (Base 100) 
Distribution of shareholding by number of shares held as on March 31, 2023
75
Apr-22
May-22
Jun-22
Jul-22
Comparison to NSE Nifty 50
Aug-22
NSE Nifty 50
Sep-22
Oct-22
Nov-22
Dec-22
Jan-23
Feb-23
Mar-23
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
The Company
The Company
75
Apr-22
May-22
Jun-22
Jul-22
Comparison to BSE Sensex
Aug-22
BSE Sensex
Sep-22
Oct-22
Nov-22
Dec-22
Jan-23
Feb-23
Mar-23
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
Performance of the Company in comparison to BSE Sensex (Base 100)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 124
Annual Report 
2023
101
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Shareholding Pattern as on March 31, 2023
Category
Total Shares
Total 
Percentage (%)
Promoter and Promoter Group
Indian
-
-
Foreign
-
-
Total Promoter Shareholding
-
-
Public Shareholding
Institutional Investor
Mutual Funds
17,150,731
2.71
Financial institutions and Banks
-
-
Insurance Companies
705,025
0.11
Alternate Investment Funds
2,322,062
0.37
Foreign Portfolio Investors
73,280,140
11.56
Foreign Direct Investment
382,000,083
60.27
Any Other (Central Government / President of India)
2,086
0.00
Non-Institutional Investor
Bodies Corporate
37,400,584
5.90
Clearing Members
157,652
0.02
IEPF
-
-
Bodies Corporate (Foreign)
-
-
Trust
208,569
0.03
NBFC
13,128
0.00
NRI
2,391,977
0.38
Resident Individual / Hindu Undivided Family / Directors and their 
relatives (excluding Independent Directors and nominee Directors)
118,156,175
18.64
Foreign National
5
0.00
Total Public Shareholding
633,788,217
100.00
Shares held by Employee Trust
-
-
Total
633,788,217
100
Dematerialisation 
of 
Shares 
and 
Liquidity
The Company’s shares are compulsorily traded 
in dematerialized form and are available for 
trading with both the depositories i.e. National 
Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and 
Central Depository Services (India) Limited 
(CDSL). The Members can hold the Company’s 
shares with any of the depository participants, 
registered with the depositories.
In terms of the amended Regulation 40(1) of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, with effect from April 
1, 2019, securities of listed companies can be 
transferred only in dematerialised form (except 
transmission of securities or transposition in the 
name(s) of holding). Accordingly, the shares held 
in physical form will not be transferred unless 
they are converted into dematerialized form. 
Transfers of equity shares in electronic form are 
effected through the depository system with no 
involvement of the Company.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 125
Annual Report 
2023
102
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Shareholding
No. of Shares
% of Total Shares
Physical Mode
567,162
0.09
Dematerialised Mode
633,221,055
99.91
Total
633,788,217
100.00
Pursuant to Regulation 40(9) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company obtain certificates from 
a practicing Company Secretary on a yearly basis to the effect that all the transfers are completed 
within the statutory stipulated period. A copy of the certificates so received are submitted to both 
the Stock Exchanges viz. NSE and BSE.
There was no instance of suspension of trading in Company’s shares during FY 2022-23.
The break-up of shares held in physical and dematerialised mode as on March 31, 2023 is as follows:
The equity shares of the Company are liquid and 
traded in dematerialised form on BSE and NSE.
Outstanding GDRs/ ADRs/ Warrants or any 
Convertible instruments, conversion date and 
likely impact on equity
The Company has not issued any GDRs / ADRs 
/ Warrants or any convertible instruments in 
the past and hence, as on March 31, 2023, the 
Company does not have any outstanding GDRs / 
ADRs / Warrants or any convertible instruments.
Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk 
and hedging activities:
Commodity Risk:
The Company is not exposed to any commodity 
price risk, and hence the disclosure under 
Clause 9(n) of Part C of Schedule V in terms of 
the format prescribed vide SEBI Master Circular 
No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/CIR/P/2023/120 dated 
July 11, 2023, is not applicable.
Foreign Exchange Risk:
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair 
value of future cash flows of an exposure 
will fluctuate because of changes in foreign 
exchange rates. The Company’s exposure to 
the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates 
relates primarily to the Company’s operating and 
investing activities (when revenue or expense/
capex is denominated in a foreign currency).
The fluctuation in foreign currency exchange 
rates may have potential impact on the 
statement of profit and loss where assets / 
liabilities are denominated in a currency other 
than the functional currency of the Company.
During FY 2022-23, the Company did not 
undertake any derivative hedging activity and 
managed its foreign exchange risk through a 
mix of close monitoring, management review 
and natural hedge.
Plant Locations
Being a service provider, the Company has 
no plant locations. However, the details of 
Company’s Offices form part of the Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report.
Credit Rating
The Company has not issued any non-
convertible securities and hence, no credit 
ratings were required to be obtained during FY 
2022-23.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 126
Annual Report 
2023
103
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Communications Details
Particulars
Contact
Email
Address
For queries 
relating to investor 
grievances and 
annual report
 Mr. Sunil Kumar 
Bansal, Company 
Secretary and 
Compliance Officer
compliance.officer@
paytm.com
One Skymark, Tower D, 
Plot No. H-10B, Sector-98, 
Noida-201304
Ph. No. - 120-4770770;
For queries 
relating to 
financials/investor 
relations
Mr. Anuj Mittal, SVP - 
Investor Relations
ir@paytm.com
For Registrar and 
Share Transfer 
Agent Queries
Mr. Vishal Kumar, Link 
lntime India Private 
Limited
delhi@linkintime.
co.in
Link Intime India Private Limited,
Noble Heights, 1st Floor, Plot NH 
2, C-1 Block LSC, Near Savitri 
Market, Janakpuri, New Delhi - 
110058 Ph. No. - 011-49411000
Related Party Transactions
During FY 2022-23, the Company has entered 
into material Related Party Transactions, with 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited (“PPBL”) for 
which prior approval of the Audit Committee 
and Members of the Company was obtained. 
The Related Party Transactions with PPBL, 
being operational and critical in nature, play a 
significant role in Company’s / its subsidiaries 
business(es).
The Related Party Transactions with PPBL are 
not, in any manner, detrimental to the interest 
of minority Members and are in the best interest 
of the Company and its Members. The Related 
Party Transactions with PPBL, doesn’t have 
a potential conflict of interest between the 
Company and its Directors or Management or 
their relatives.
The Related Party Transactions are disclosed 
in Notes to Accounts. A copy of the policy on 
dealing with Related Party Transactions is 
available on the Company’s website at https://
ir.paytm.com/policies-and-guidelines
Details 
of 
Non-compliance 
with 
regard to Capital Markets during the 
last three years
The Company has complied with the applicable 
rules, regulations and guidelines prescribed by 
SEBI and Stock Exchanges, from time to time. 
Subsequent to the date of its listing, there 
were no penalties or strictures imposed on the 
Company by the Stock Exchange(s), SEBI and/ 
or any other statutory authorities on matters 
relating to the capital market.
Vigil Mechanism/Whistle Blower Policy
The Company has adopted and established a robust 
vigil/whistle blower mechanism. Since it is also a 
statutory requirement, therefore, in compliance 
with Section 177 (9) of the Act read with Rule 7 of 
the Companies (Meeting of Board and its Powers) 
Rules, 2014 and Regulation 22 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the Board approved the establishment 
of the said mechanism by formulating and adopting 
the ‘Vigil Mechanism/Whistle Blower Mechanism 
Policy’ (“WB Policy”). The WB Policy provides a 
framework for responsible and secure whistle 
blowing/vigil mechanism. The WB Policy covers 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 127
Annual Report 
2023
104
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
disclosure / reporting of any unethical behaviour 
(actual or suspected), event of misconduct, fraud 
or any act against the Company’s interest as well 
as any breach of the Company’s Code of Conduct 
which may have taken place or is suspected to 
have taken place in the Company.
The WB Policy encourages the employee(s) of 
the Company to raise genuine concerns about 
any malpractices at the workplace without any 
fear of retaliation or victimisation. Additionally, 
the mechanism also facilitates reporting of 
genuine concerns about any unethical / improper 
conduct of any employee of the Company to the 
management/Audit Committee of the Company. 
Adequate safeguards have been provided in 
the WB Policy to protect any Director(s) and 
employee(s)against any kind of victimisation.
All disclosures made by Whistle Blowers under this 
mechanism/WB policy are recorded and thoroughly 
investigated by the Company’s designated vigilance 
officer (either himself/herself or by involving any 
other officer of the Company or through an outside 
agency). A Whistle Blower also has the option to 
avail direct access to the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee for reporting inter-alia any instance of 
unethical behaviour or violation of Company’s Code 
of Conduct, which instance is investigated as per 
the procedure set out in the Policy. The identity of 
the Whistle Blower is kept confidential to the extent 
possible and permitted under law. Any employee 
assisting in investigation of any complaint shall also 
be protected to the same extent as the Whistle 
Blower.
The link of WB Policy is annexed as Annexure B 
to this report.
During FY 2022-23, a total of 27 complaints were 
received and taken up for investigation out of 
which 22 complaints were resolved as on March 
31, 2023. 5 complaints remained pending/under 
the process of investigation by the Company 
as on the aforesaid date (which investigations 
stand resolved within the stipulated time 
period). None of the Whistle Blowers have been 
denied access to the Audit Committee.
Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
(POSH) at Workplace
The Company does not tolerate verbal or physical 
conduct likely to create an intimidating, offensive, 
or hostile environment for employees. Harassment 
of any kind including sexual harassment is 
forbidden in the Company and every employee has 
the right to be protected against it. The Company is 
committed to create a healthy working environment 
that enables employees to work without fear of 
prejudice, gender bias and sexual harassment. 
The Company believes that all employees of the 
Company have the right to be treated with dignity.
The Prevention of Sexual Harassment (“POSH”) 
at Workplace Policy has been formed under the 
provisions of The Sexual Harassment of Women 
at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013, to prohibit, prevent or deter 
the commission of acts of sexual harassment 
at workplace and to provide the procedure for 
the redressal of complaints pertaining to sexual 
harassment. In case of any allegations of sexual 
harassment are substantiated by the Internal 
Complaints 
Committee 
(ICC), 
appropriate 
disciplinary action shall be taken against the 
accused. A helpline number and a designated 
email ID for ICC is shared to employees to raise 
complaints or get counselling. Disciplinary action 
may include transfer, withholding promotion, 
suspension or even dismissal. This action shall 
be in addition to any legal recourse sought by 
the complainant.
The policy can be accessed on the Company’s 
website using below link: https://ir.paytm.com/
policies-and-guidelines

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 128
Annual Report 
2023
105
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
The Company on a regular basis sensitises its employees on the prevention of sexual harassment 
at the workplace through workshops, group meetings, online training modules and awareness 
programmes which are held on a regular basis.
Number of complaints filed 
during the financial year
Number of complaints disposed 
of during the financial year
Number of complaints pending 
as on end of the financial year
5
4*
1**
*Out of the 4 disposed cases, 1 case was withdrawn by the complainant.
**The complaint has been closed after March 31, 2023. 
During FY 2022-23, status of cases reported with respect to POSH is as follows:
Details of utilization of funds raised 
through preferential allotment or 
qualified institutions placement as 
specified under Regulation 32 (7A)
During FY 2022-23, the Company has not raised 
funds through preferential allotment or qualified 
institutional placement.
No Disqualification Certificate from 
Practicing Company Secretary
A certificate from Mr. Nitesh Latwal (ICSI 
Membership No.: A32109), Partner, M/s. PI & 
Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries, 
pursuant to Schedule V of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, confirming that none of the 
Directors on the Board of the Company has 
been debarred or disqualified from being 
appointed or continuing as a Director of the 
Company by the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any 
such statutory authority as on March 31, 2023, 
is provided in Annexure C to this report.
Compliance 
Certificate 
from 
the 
Secretarial Auditor regarding the 
compliance of conditions of the 
Corporate Governance
A certificate from M/s. PI & Associates, 
Practicing Company Secretaries, pursuant to 
Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
affirming compliance of Corporate Governance 
during FY 2022-23, is provided in Annexure D 
to this report.
CEO and CFO Certification
The certificate required under Regulation 17(8) of 
SEBI Listing Regulations, duly signed by the Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of 
the Company was placed before the Board. The 
same is provided as Annexure E to this report.
Consolidated Fees paid to Statutory Auditors
During FY 2022-23, the total fees for all services paid by the Company and its subsidiaries, on a 
consolidated basis, to the statutory auditors, is given below:
Particulars
Amount (₹ in Mn)
Audit Fees*
19.28
Other services*
14.49
Total
33.77
*Includes out-of-pocket expenses

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 129
Annual Report 
2023
106
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Loans and Advances in the nature of Loans to Firms/Companies in which 
Directors are interested by Name and Amount
The details of loans and advances in the nature of loans to firms/companies in which Directors are 
interested, forms part of notes to the financial statements.
Details of material subsidiaries of the listed entity; including the date and 
place of incorporation and the name and date of appointment of the Statutory 
Auditors of such subsidiaries
In compliance with Regulation 16(1)(c) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has formulated 
a Policy for Determining Material Subsidiaries. The said policy is available on the website of the 
Company at https://ir.paytm.com/policies-and-guidelines.
During FY 2022-23, Paytm Payments Services Limited (“PPSL”) was identified as a material 
subsidiary of the Company. The details of PPSL, as on March 31, 2023, are set out below:
Date and Place of Incorporation
October 10, 2020, New Delhi
Name of Statutory Auditors
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Date of Appointment of Statutory Auditors
September 24, 2021
Disclosures with respect to demat suspense account/ unclaimed suspense account
In accordance with the requirement of Regulation 34(3) and Part F of Schedule V to the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, details of the equity shares lying in the Unclaimed Suspense Account are as follows:
Particulars
No. of 
Shareholders
No. of Shares
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding 
shares in the suspense account lying at the beginning of the 
year i.e. April 1, 2022
1
6
Number of shareholders who approached listed entity for 
transfer of shares from suspense account during the year i.e. 
April 1, 2022 to March 31, 2023
1
6
Number of shareholders to whom shares were transferred 
from suspense account during the year i.e. April 1, 2022 to 
March 31, 2023
1
6
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding 
shares in the suspense account lying at the end of the year 
i.e. March 31, 2023
0
0
The Company confirms that the voting rights on these shares remained frozen till the rightful owner 
of such shares claims the shares.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 130
Annual Report 
2023
107
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Compliance 
with 
the 
Mandatory 
Requirements of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations
The Board periodically reviews the compliance 
of all the applicable laws. The Company has 
complied with all the mandatory requirements 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations relating to 
Corporate Governance.
Compliance with discretionary 
requirements:
a)	Communication to Shareholders
 
Quarterly 
and 
annual 
financial 
results 
along with the transcripts of earnings and 
presentations are posted on the Company's 
website. Other information, such as press 
releases, 
stock 
exchange 
disclosures 
and presentations made to investors and 
analysts, etc., is also regularly updated on 
the Company’s website. The Company also 
publishes voting results of shareholders’ 
meetings and makes it available on its 
website as well as reports the same to 
Stock Exchanges in terms of Regulation 
44 of SEBI Listing Regulations. For an easy 
understanding of shareholders’ rights, a 
Frequently Asked Questions' section is also 
available on the Company's website.
b)	Shareholder’s Right
 
The Company ensures that disclosure of 
all information is disseminated on a non- 
discretionary basis to all shareholders. 
Quarterly results along with press releases, 
investor presentations, recordings as well 
as transcripts of the earnings calls are 
uploaded on the website of the company at 
https://ir.paytm.com/financial-results.
c)	Audit Qualifications
 
The Auditors have issued an unmodified 
opinion on the financial statements of the 
Company.
d)	Reporting of Internal Auditor
 
The 
Company 
has 
appointed 
‘M/s. 
Grant 
Thornton 
Bharat 
LLP' 
(LLP 
Identification 
No: 
AAA-7677) 
and 
'M/s. 
Protiviti 
India 
Member 
Private 
Limited'(CIN:U93000HR2009PTC057389)
as independent Joint Internal Auditors 
under Section 138 of the Act for FY 2022-
23. The Company also have an Internal Audit 
department of the Company to supervise 
Internal Audit function, who also reports 
directly to the Audit Committee.
 
Internal Audit function is governed by the 
Internal Audit Charter approved by the Audit 
Committee, Internal Audit scope and Internal 
Audits / Reviews outcome are submitted and 
presented in the Audit Committee meetings 
every quarter.
Green Initiatives by MCA
In compliance with the provisions of Section 20 
of the Act and as a continuing endeavour towards 
the ‘Go Green’ initiative, the Company sends 
all correspondence/ communications through 
email to those Members who have registered 
their email id with their depository participant’s/ 
Company’s registrar and share transfer agent.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 131
Annual Report 
2023
108
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Annexure A
Declaration
I hereby confirm that the Company has received a confirmation from all the members of the Board 
and Senior Management, for the financial year ended March 31, 2023, that they are in compliance 
with the Company’s Code of Conduct.
For One 97 Communications Limited
Date: July 21, 2023 
Vijay Shekhar Sharma
Place: New Delhi 
Chairman, Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
DIN: 00466521

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 132
Annual Report 
2023
109
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Annexure B
Corporate Policies
Every Listed Company is required to formulate certain policies pursuant to provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015. The Company has formulated and adopted all such applicable policies. These policies are 
reviewed periodically by the Board and updated as and when needed.
The 
below-mentioned 
policies 
are 
available 
on 
the 
website 
of 
the 
Company 
at 
https://ir.paytm.com/policies-and-guidelines.
Name of the Policies
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy
Code of Conduct for Board of Directors and the Senior Management Team
Code of Conduct to Regulate, Monitor & Report Trading by Designated Persons and their Immediate 
Relatives.
Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy
Dividend Distribution Policy
Equal Employment Opportunity Policy for Persons with Disabilities.
Nomination and Remuneration Policy
Policy for Determining ‘Material’ Subsidiaries
Policy for Preservation of Documents
Policy for Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace
Policy on Familiarization of Independent Director
Policy on Material Events and Information
Policy on Related Party Transactions
Risk Assessment and Management Policy
Vigil Mechanism/Whistle Blower Mechanism Policy
Web Archival Policy

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 133
Annual Report 
2023
110
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Annexure C
Certificate of Non-Disqualification of Directors
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To,
The Members
One 97 Communications Limited 
First Floor, Devika Tower, 
Nehru Place New Delhi, lndia-110019
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from 
the Directors of ONE 97 COMMUNICATIONS LIMITED having CIN: L72200DL2000PLC108985 and 
having registered office at First Floor, Devika Tower Nehru Place, New Delhi -110019 (hereinafter 
referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before us by the Company for the purpose of issuing 
this Certificate, in accordance with the Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 
10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015. 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors 
Identification Number (‘DIN’) status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and 
explanations furnished to us by the Company and the respective Directors, we hereby certify that 
none of the Directors on the Board of the Company, as stated below, for the financial year ended on 
March 31, 2023, have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors 
of Companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any 
such other Statutory Authority.
S.No DIN
Name of Director
Initial Date of 
Appointment
Date of 
Appointment in 
Current Term 
(incl. date of 
reappointment)
1
00466521
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma
December 22, 2000 December 19, 2022
2
07720350
Mr. Madhur Deora
May 20, 2022
May 20, 2022
3
00253613
Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli
February 16, 2012
February 16, 2012
4
00013580
Mrs. Pallavi Shardul Shroff
February 09, 2018
February 09, 2021
5
00766821
Mr. Ashit Ranjit Lilani
July 05, 2021
July 05, 2021
6
03581311
Mr. Vivek Kumar Mathur*
July 11, 2021
July 11, 2021
7
07221836
Mr. Neeraj Arora
July 11, 2021
July 11, 2021
8
00361030
Mr. Gopalasamudram 
Srinivasaraghavan Sundararajan
August 29, 2022
August 29, 2022
*Alternate Director to Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 134
Annual Report 
2023
111
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/continuity of every Director on the Board is the 
responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on 
these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of 
the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the 
affairs of the Company.
For PI & Associates,
Company Secretaries
Nitesh Latwal
Partner
ACS No.: A32109
CP No.: 16276
Date: May 11, 2023 
Peer Review No.: 1498/2021
Place: New Delhi 
UDIN: A032109E000291423 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 135
Annual Report 
2023
112
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Annexure D
Certificate on Corporate Governance
To,
The Members
One 97 Communications Limited
1. We have examined the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance by One 97 
Communications Limited ("Company"), for the year ended on March 31, 2023, as stipulated 
under Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation 2 of Regulation 46 and Para 
C, D and E of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended ("SEBI Listing Regulations").
2. The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the Management 
of the Company. Our examination was limited to the review of procedures and implementation 
thereof, as adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the conditions of the 
Corporate Governance stipulated in SEBI Listing Regulations. It is neither an audit nor an 
expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
3. In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to our examination of the relevant 
records and the explanations given to us, and the representations made by the Directors and 
the management, we certify that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate 
Governance as stipulated in the SEBI Listing Regulations for the year ended on March 31, 2023
4. We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the 
Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the 
affairs of the Company.
For PI & Associates,
Company Secretaries
Nitesh Latwal
Partner
ACS No.: A32109
CP No.: 16276
Date: May 11, 2023 
Peer Review No.: 1498/2021
Place: New Delhi 
UDIN: A032109E000291423 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 136
Annual Report 
2023
113
Statutory Reports
Corporate Governance 
Report
Annexure E
Chief Executive Officer (CEO)/ Chief Financial Officer 
(CFO) certification
We, Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Chairman, Managing Director and CEO and Madhur Deora, Executive 
Director, President and Group Chief Financial Officer of One 97 Communications Limited, to the 
best of our knowledge and belief hereby certify that:
a) We have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year ended March 
31, 2023 and that to the best of our knowledge and belief:
 
(i) these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or 
contain statements that might be misleading; and
 
(ii) these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in 
compliance with existing accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
b) There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company 
during the year which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s code of conduct.
c) We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting 
and that we have evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company 
pertaining to financial reporting and we have disclosed to the Auditors and the Audit Committee, 
deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls, if any, of which we are aware 
and the steps we have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies.
d) We have indicated to the auditors and the Audit Committee:
 
(i) significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year;
 
(ii) significant changes in accounting policies during the year and that the same have been 
disclosed in the notes to the financial statements; and
 
(iii) instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, 
if any, of the management or an employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal 
control system over financial reporting.
 
Vijay Shekhar Sharma	
Madhur Deora
 
Chairman, Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Director, President and
 
Executive Officer 
Group Chief Financial Officer
 
DIN: 00466521 
DIN: 07720350
Date: May 4, 2023 
Place: New Delhi 
Place: Mumbai

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 137
Annual Report 
2023
114
Statutory Reports
1
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the 
Listed Entity
L72200DL2000PLC108985
2
Name of the Listed Entity
One 97 Communications Limited
3
Year of incorporation
2000
4
Registered office address
First Floor, Devika Tower, Nehru Place, New Delhi 
– 110019
5
Corporate address
One Skymark, Tower D, Plot No. H-10B, 
Sector-98, Noida–201304
6
E-mail
compliance.officer@paytm.com
7
Telephone
+91-120- 4770770
8
Website
www.paytm.com
9
Financial year for which reporting is 
being done.
FY 2022-23
10
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where 
shares are listed.
The Equity shares of the Company are listed 
and traded on National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited and BSE Limited
11
Paid-up Capital (H)
Rs. 63,37,88,217
12
Name and contact details (telephone, 
email address) of the person who may 
be contacted in case of any queries on 
the BRSR report.
Name: Sunil Kumar Bansal
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer 
Telephone Number: +91 120 4770770
Email: compliance.officer@paytm.com
13
Reporting boundary - Are the 
disclosures under this report made on 
a standalone basis (i.e. only for the 
entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e. 
for the entity and all the entities which 
form a part of its consolidated financial 
statements, taken together).
Standalone basis
Section A – General Disclosures
Details of the Listed entity
Business Responsibility &  
Sustainability Report

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 138
Annual Report 
2023
115
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
S. 
No.
Description of Main 
Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover 
of the entity
1
Payment and 
financial services
Payment services for consumers and 
merchants, which enables them to send and 
receive payments both online and in-store. 
Financial Services include digital distribution of 
credit, insurance, and wealth management for 
consumers and merchants.
80%
2
Commerce and 
cloud services
Commerce and Cloud services include ticketing 
for travel and entertainment. It also includes 
advertising, and loyalty programs for merchants.
20%
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
0
56
56
International
0
17
17
S. 
No. Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover 
contributed
1
Key services offered by the Company include 
recharge and bill payment on the Paytm app; 
payment gateway services; and EDC (Electronic 
Data Capture) payment devices
     63999
100
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
The Company provides services in all states of India.
International (No. of Countries)
20
Products/services
14.	Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):  
Note: In addition, we have other non-operating income
15.	Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
III	 Operations 
16.	Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Note: International locations represent the number of registered offices, of the subsidiaries (including 
wholly owned) of the listed entity.
17.	 Market served by the entity.
a.	 Number of Locations

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 139
Annual Report 
2023
116
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
S. 
No. Particulars
Total
(A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
Employees
1
Permanent (D)*
25,959
24,310
93.65%
1,649
6.35%
2
Other than Permanent (E)^
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
3
Total Employees (D+E)
25,959
24,310
93.65%
1,649
6.35%
Workers
4
Permanent (F)
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
5
Other than Permanent (G)
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
6
Total workers (F +G)
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Note: International locations represent the number of countries with recorded revenue from an 
export service provided for the fiscal year 2022-23, either by the listed entity, or by its subsidiaries 
(including wholly owned).
b.	 What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
 
Approximately 1%.
c.	 A brief on types of customers
 
The Company offers payments, commerce and cloud, and financial services/solutions to over 9.2 
crores transacting users every month who benefit from our aforesaid diverse range of services. 
These services are available on a pan India basis to individuals spanning across various age groups.
 
The offerings by the Company cater to a wide spectrum of customer requirements, facilitating 
seamless money transfers, merchant payments, bill payments, e-commerce transactions 
including on-line payments, and access to a variety of other financial services.
 
Our merchant network has grown significantly, reaching 3.56 crores (35.6 million) merchants. 
Large and medium-sized merchants leverage features like payment gateway, POS machines 
and loyalty programs to enhance overall customer experience. Simultaneously, the Company 
actively empowers millions of small merchants by offering payment acceptance via products 
such as Paytm QR and Soundbox.
IV  Employees 
18.	Details as at the end of Financial Year: 2023
a.	 Employees and workers (including differently abled):
*Permanent Employees include Full Time Managerial Grade (MG) and Sales Grade (SG) employees 
^As our PSA Consultants (CG) are not on Company payrolls and paid out as Business Consulting payout. Hence, they have not 
been included.
Definition according to SEBI Guideline on BRSR Page 3: (https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/
commondocs/may-2021/Business%20responsibility%20and%20sustainability%20reporting%20
by%20listed%20entitiesAnnexure2_p.PDF)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 140
Annual Report 
2023
117
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total
(A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
Differently Abled Employees
1
Permanent (D)
10
10
100%
0
0
2
Other than Permanent (E)
0
0
0
0
0
3
Total differently abled 
employees (D + E)
10
10
100%
0
0
Differently Abled Workers
4
Permanent (F)
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
5
Other than Permanent (G)
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
6
Total differently abled workers 
(F + G)
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
S. No.
Total
(A)
No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Board of Directors*
7
1
14.29%
Key Management Personnel^
2#
0
0
FY 22-23
(Turnover rate in current 
FY)
FY 21-22
(Turnover rate in previous 
FY)
FY 20-21
(Turnover rate in the year 
prior to the previous FY)
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent 
Employees
67.70%
35.34% 64.59% 35.84%
46.55% 37.46% 35.82%
26.91% 34.33%
Permanent 
Workers
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
b.	 Differently abled Employees and workers:
Note: Above data includes those who have declared themselves as disabled and have submitted their disability certificates as 
proof
19.	Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
* Board of Directors - Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Ravi Chandra Adusumali, Neeraj Arora, Madhur Deora, Ashit Ranjit Lilani, Pallavi 
Shardul Shroff and Gopalasamudram S Sundararajan
^Key Management Personnel - Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Madhur Deora 
#Mr. Amit Khera was a KMP (Company Secretary and Compliance Officer) who left the Company in mid of March 2023
20.	Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
Note: Turnover rate for Permanent Employees includes Confirmed MG +SG employees (Entity 
transfers from the Company to other entities are not included in attrition). MG & SG employees on 
probation are not included since they are yet to be confirmed.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 141
Annual Report 
2023
118
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
S.
No
Name of the holding/
subsidiary/ associate companies/ joint ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/ 
Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of 
shares 
held by 
listed 
entity
Does the entity 
indicated at column 
A, participate in the 
Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed 
entity? (Yes/No)*
1.
One 97 Communications India Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
2.
Paytm Entertainment Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
3.
Paytm Money Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
4.
Paytm Financial Services Limited
Associate
48.78%
No
5.
Admirable Software Limited 1
Associate
48.78%
No
6.
Paytm Payments Services Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
7.
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
8.
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
9.
Paytm Services Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
10.
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
11.
Foster Payment Networks Private Limited 2
Associate
48.80%
No
12.
Little Internet Private Limited
Subsidiary
62.53%
No
13.
Nearbuy India Private Limited 3
Subsidiary
62.53%
No
14.
Urja Money Private Limited 4
Subsidiary
83.34%
No
15.
Fincollect Services Private Limited 5
Subsidiary
83.34%
No
16.
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited 6
Subsidiary
66.34%
No
17.
Xceed IT Solutions Private Limited 7
Subsidiary
66.34%
No
18.
Paytm First Games Private Limited (Name changed to First 
Games Technology Private Limited w.e.f. April 20, 2023)8
Joint Venture
55%
No
19.
Paytm Payments Bank Limited 9
Associate
49.00%
No
20.
Paytm Life Insurance Limited
Associate
49.00%
No
21.
Paytm General Insurance Limited
Associate
49.00%
No
22.
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited (formerly known as 
QoRQL Private Limited)
Associate
32.45%
No
23.
One97 Communications FZ-LLC
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
24.
One97 Communications Nigeria Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
25.
One97 Communications Singapore Private Limited 10
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
26.
One97 USA Inc.
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
27.
One97 Communications Tanzania Private Limited 11
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
28.
One97 Communications Rwanda Private Limited11 
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
29.
One 97 Communications Bangladesh Private Limited11
Subsidiary
70.00%
No
30.
One97 Uganda Limited11
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
31.
One 97 Communications Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.11 
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
32.
One 97 Benin SA11 
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
33.
One 97 Ivory Coast SA11
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
V. Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
21.	(a) Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 142
Annual Report 
2023
119
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
1 WOS of Paytm Financial Services Limited
2 Including 4.90% held through Paytm Payments Bank Limited
3 WOS of Little Internet Private Limited
4 Including 15.87% held through Admirable Software Limited
5 WOS of Urja Money Private Limited
6 Including 0.63% held through Admirable Software Limited. The entities have issued preference shares as well to the Holding 
Company
7 WOS of Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
8 Joint Venture of Paytm Entertainment Limited
9 Including 10% held through One 97 Communications India Limited. As per Banking Regulation Act, 1949, voting rights in a 
banking Company are capped at 26% in case the investor holds more than 26% in the bank
10 Including 43.75% held through One 97 Communications India Limited
11 Subsidiary of One97 Communications Singapore Private Limited
S.
No
Name of the holding/
subsidiary/ associate companies/ joint ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/ 
Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of 
shares 
held by 
listed 
entity
Does the entity 
indicated at column 
A, participate in the 
Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed 
entity? (Yes/No)*
34.
Paytm Labs Inc.11
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
35.
One Nine Seven Communication Nepal Private Limited11 
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
36.
One Nine Seven Digital Solutions Limited11 
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
37.
One Nine Seven Communications Saudi Arabia For 
Communication and Information Technology11 
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
38.
First Games Singapore Pte Ltd. (Formerly Paytm First 
Games Singapore Pte. Ltd.) 
Joint Venture
55%
No
39.
Paytm Technology Beijing Co. Ltd. (Name changed to 
Bluefield Technology Beijing Co. Ltd. w.e.f. July 06, 2023)12
Joint Venture
55%
No
40.
Socomo Technologies Private Limited 
Associate
12.75%
No
41.
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited13
Associate
26.57%
No
42.
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited13
Associate
23.24%
No
Note: Some of the subsidiary/associate companies have their own business responsibility initiatives 
and participate in those of the Company’s only as and when required/agreed. 
VI	CSR Details14 
22.	(i) Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No) – Yes15 
(ii) Turnover (in Rs.)  Rs. 6,028 Crores
(iii) Net worth (in Rs.) Rs. 12,287 Crores
12 WOS of First Games Technology Private Limited
13 The entities have issued preference shares as well to the Holding Company
14  Please refer to details on Corporate Social Responsibility as covered in the Board’s Report. 
15 However, the average net profit of the Company made during three (3) immediately preceding financial years is negative and 
hence, the Company is not statutorily required to spend any amount on CSR activities for the financial year 2022-23

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 143
Annual Report 
2023
120
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
VII	 Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
23. Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines 
on Responsible Business Conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
(Yes/No) (If Yes, 
then provide web-
link for grievance 
redress policy)
FY 22-23
 Current Financial Year
FY 21-22
 Previous Financial Year
Number of 
Complaints 
Filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
Complaints 
Filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Communities
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Shareholders
Yes. It is publicly 
available.
https://ir.paytm.
com/policies-and-
guidelines
17
NIL
NIL
40
2
The 2 complaints 
pending at the 
end of the FY 
2021-22 were 
redressed within 
due timelines 
in compliance 
with SEBI Listing 
Regulations and in 
accordance with 
Investor Grievance 
Policy of the 
Company
Employees & 
workers
Yes. It is publicly 
available. 
https://paytm.
com/document/
ir/policies-and-
guidelines/
Anti-Bribery-Anti-
Corruption-Policy-
Ver1.2.pdf
https://paytm.
com/document/
ir/policies-and-
guidelines/Whistle-
Blower-Vigil-
mechanism-policy.
pdf
27
5
Nil
18
0
Nil

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 144
Annual Report 
2023
121
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
(Yes/No) (If Yes, 
then provide web-
link for grievance 
redress policy)
FY 22-23
 Current Financial Year
FY 21-22
 Previous Financial Year
Number of 
Complaints 
Filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
Complaints 
Filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Customers16
Yes
https://paytm.com/
company/terms-
and-conditions?co
mpany=one97&tab
=terms
9,847
0
a) 2,395-Merchant 
Helpdesk
b) 7,452 - 
Customer 
Helpdesk
1,739
0
Merchant 
Helpdesk
Value Chain 
Partners*
No*
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Others 
(please 
specify)
NIL
16 The data for FY 21-22 consists of only merchant complaints. However, the data for FY 22-23 consist of merchants and users' 
complaints. Hence, there is a difference in the number of complaints. Further, the complaints mentioned herein are received 
through following channels: RBI complaints, Banking Ombudsman (BO), Nodal, Grievance (GRO)
*As of now the value chain partners register their complaints through the following email - vendorhelpdesk@paytm.com, 
procuresupport@paytm.com
Note: Purchase team is in a process to develop a ticketing module which is an online tool to track 
the real time grievances.  The process is in the testing phase and the system will be ready in the 
next 2-3 months.
24.	Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to 
environmental and social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 145
Annual Report 
2023
122
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, 
as per the following format: 
S. 
No.
Material issues 
identified
Indicate 
whether   risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying risk/ opportunity
In case 
of risk, 
approach 
to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunities 
(indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
1
Business Ethics 
& transparency
Opportunity
Embracing strong business ethics and 
transparency can offer fintech companies a 
notable edge in the prevailing competitive 
landscape. With steadfast dedication to 
ethical conduct, transparent practices, and 
safeguarding consumers, the Company 
continues to strengthen trust with 
regulators, partners, and customers.
Additionally, upholding ethical principles 
creates a work environment that attracts 
and retains top tier talent seeking to 
contribute to an organisation esteemed for 
its unwavering integrity and responsible 
practice.
Not 
applicable
Positive
2
Customer 
satisfaction
Opportunity
The Company has established its reputation 
and brand and enjoys stakeholders’ 
confidence.
We are committed to delivering high levels 
of customer-experience and satisfaction 
to our user base, and have put in place 
requisite frameworks and measures to 
gauge customer satisfaction across key 
journeys, touch points and business lines.
We have a dedicated grievance redressal 
mechanism for our customers and we 
plan to continue improving the mechanism 
by providing customers with multiple 
channels to raise their grievances, such as 
a dedicated helpline, email support, and an 
in-app chat feature.
Keeping customers informed about the 
progress of their complaints is essential in 
building trust. We are working on setting 
realistic timeframes for resolution of issues.
Not 
applicable
Positive

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 146
Annual Report 
2023
123
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
S. 
No.
Material issues 
identified
Indicate 
whether   risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying risk/ opportunity
In case 
of risk, 
approach 
to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunities 
(indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
3
Data privacy
Opportunity
The Company embraces data protection 
and privacy as the foundation of the 
business operations. In this digital age, 
we recognize the utmost importance 
of safeguarding sensitive information, 
especially with the widespread adoption 
of remote working conditions, which has 
further amplified the significance of these 
measures.
Not 
applicable
Positive
4
Financial 
inclusion 
& product 
innovation
Opportunity
Addressing financial inclusion can be 
an opportunity for fintech companies to 
demonstrate their commitment to social 
responsibility, build trust with customers, 
and tap into underserved markets, thereby 
expanding their customer base and 
potential for growth.
Developing solutions that address societal 
challenges such as financial inclusion, 
accessibility and sustainability can lead 
to positive brand perception, increased 
customer loyalty, and new market 
opportunities. By proactively integrating 
social responsibility into the innovation 
processes, we can create a positive impact 
on society while driving our own success in 
the market.
The Company is committed to enhancing 
customer satisfaction via product 
innovation, efficient processes, digital 
solutions, easy access to products and 
services and fair marketing practices.
Not 
applicable
Positive
5
Employee 
wellness 
and talent 
management
Opportunity
We recognize that building a positive 
work culture and prioritizing employee 
engagement are vital components 
for achieving long-term success. 
Our commitment to effective talent 
management practices allows us to identify 
high-potential individuals and nurture their 
skills to prepare them for leadership roles 
as our Company continues to expand and 
flourish.
Not 
applicable
Positive

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 147
Annual Report 
2023
124
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
S. 
No.
Material issues 
identified
Indicate 
whether   risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying risk/ opportunity
In case 
of risk, 
approach 
to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunities 
(indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
6
Community 
Development
Opportunity
The Company, as a responsible corporate 
business, embraces an unwavering 
commitment to Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR), aimed at enhancing 
the quality of life for individuals within the 
communities it serves. Our CSR Policy 
stands as a testament to our dedication 
in creating a positive impact on society’s 
well-being. By actively engaging with 
the communities in which we operate, 
the Company strives to be a catalyst for 
positive change, fostering sustainable 
development and empowering those in 
need. 
(Currently, CSR activities are being carried 
out through Paytm Foundation, a trust set 
up by the Company.)
Not 
applicable
Positive
7
Environment 
sensitivity/
sustainable 
awareness
Opportunity
While our energy consumption is modest, 
we are committed to minimizing it further, 
cutting carbon footprints, and lowering 
costs. By efficiently managing energy, we 
are reducing emissions and expenses. Our 
dedication to combat climate change has 
driven us to adopt eco-friendly solutions 
like VRV/VRF AC systems and LED bulbs, 
reducing carbon output. As environmental 
awareness grows, we are meeting 
consumer demands for sustainability. We 
have implemented a robust waste collection 
plan aligned with the Central Pollution 
Control Board’s (CPCB) Extended Producer 
Responsibility. Additionally, Company has 
significantly curbed paper usage across 
its operations, contributing to our eco-
conscious approach.
Not 
applicable
Positive

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 148
Annual Report 
2023
125
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
Principle
Applicable Policies with Link
Principle 1: Businesses should 
conduct and govern themselves 
with Ethics, Transparency and 
Accountability
Code of Conduct
Code of Conduct for Board of Directors and the Senior 
Management Team
Whistle Blower Policy/Vigil Mechanism
Anti-Bribery & Anti-corruption Policy
Policy on Related-Party Transaction
Anti-Money Laundering
Code of Conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading 
by designated persons and their immediate relatives
Code of practices and procedures for fair disclosure of 
unpublished price sensitive information
Risk Assessment and Management Policy
Policy on familiarization of Independent Director
Policy on material events and information
Principle 2:  Businesses should 
provide goods and services that are 
safe and contribute to sustainability 
throughout their life cycle
Sustainable Sourcing Policy
Principle 3: Businesses should 
promote the wellbeing of all 
employees
Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment
Whistle Blower Policy/Vigil Mechanism
Employee Grievance Redressal Policy
Insurance Policies
Disciplinary Action Policy
Nomination and Remuneration Policy
Principle 4: Businesses should 
respect the interests of, and 
be responsive towards all 
stakeholders, especially those who 
are disadvantaged, vulnerable and 
marginalized
Web Archival Policy
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy
Policy for preservation of documents

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 149
Annual Report 
2023
126
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Principle
Applicable Policies with Link
Principle 5: Businesses should 
respect and promote human rights
Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment
Equal Employment Opportunity Policy for Persons with 
Disabilities
Code of Conduct (Internal)
Nomination and Remuneration Policy
Principle 6:  Business should respect, 
protect, and make efforts to restore 
the environment
Sustainability Policy
Principle 7: Businesses, when 
engaging in influencing public and 
regulatory policy, should do so in a 
responsible manner
Policy for Determining Material Subsidiaries
Code of practices and procedures for fair disclosure of 
unpublished price sensitive information
Principle 8: Businesses should 
support inclusive growth and 
equitable development
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy
Learning and Development
Principle 9: Businesses should 
engage with and provide value to 
their customers and consumers in a 
responsible manner
Acceptable Usage Policy
Information Security Policy
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put 
in place towards adopting the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
1. a. Whether your entity’s policy/
policies cover each principle 
and its core elements of the 
NGRBCs(Yes/No)
Yes Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes Yes
Yes
Yes
b. Has the policy been approved by 
the Board? (Yes/No)
Yes Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes Yes
Yes
Yes
c. Web Link of the Policies, if 
available
Yes No
Yes
Yes
Yes
No Yes
Yes
No
2. Whether the entity has translated the 
policy into procedures. (Yes / No)
Yes No
Yes
Yes
Yes
No Yes
Yes
Yes
3. Do the enlisted policies extend to 
your value chain partners? (Yes/No)
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
4. Name of the national and international 
codes/certifications/labels/ standards 
(e.g. Forest Stewardship Council, 
Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, 
Trustea) standards (e.g. SA 8000, 
OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your 
entity and mapped to each principle. 
entity and mapped to each principle.
NIL NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL NIL
NIL
Yes
ISO 
27001

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 150
Annual Report 
2023
127
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
5. Specific commitments, goals and 
targets set by the entity with defined 
timelines
No
No Yes.
1.      
Conducting 
safety training 
for value chain 
partners by FY 
ending March 
2024.
2. Ensuring 
human rights 
training for 
employees 
by FY ending 
March 2024
3. Through 
continuous 
learning and 
professional 
growth 
opportunities, 
we aim to 
empower our 
workforce, 
enhancing 
their 
capabilities, 
and fostering 
a thriving and 
dynamic work 
environment.
No Yes
1.      
Conducting 
safety 
training for 
value chain 
partners by 
FY ending 
March 2024.
2. Ensuring 
human 
rights 
training for 
employees 
by FY 
ending 
March 2024
No
No Yes.
To create 
a positive 
and lasting 
impact in 
the lives of 
communities. 
To achieve 
this, we 
will identify 
key focus 
areas and 
actively work 
towards 
uplifting 
these 
communities 
through our 
initiatives 
and efforts.
No
6. Performance of the entity against 
the specific commitments, goals and 
targets along-with reasons in case 
the same are not met
No commitment was made last year
Governance, leadership, and oversight
7. Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility & sustainability report highlighting ESG 
related challenges, targets and achievements
We are delighted to present the Company’s Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report for the year, which 
details our achievements and commitment towards promoting environmental, social, and governance (ESG) 
principles. We are India’s leading mobile payments and financial services distribution company, and the pioneer 
of the mobile QR payments revolution in India. The Company’s mission is to serve half a billion Indians and bring 
them to mainstream of economy with help of technology.
As a prominent digital financial services platform, we are dedicated towards working with relevant stakeholders 
to establish a robust ESG framework that aligns with our mission of creating sustainable value.   We have 
consistently invested in technology and built a strong digital infrastructure, as outlined in the report. OCL builds 
technologies that help small businesses with payments and commerce, and we take great pride in extending 
financial services to underserved communities and promoting financial literacy in India. Through our various 
collaborations, we have provided access to affordable and convenient digital financial services.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 151
Annual Report 
2023
128
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
We are equally committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace that promotes equal opportunities and 
have implemented concrete measures to enhance diversity across all levels of our organization.
In conclusion, our commitment to ESG principles is fundamental to our long-term success and sustainability as 
a business. We will continue to prioritize these issues to achieve our goals and advance our vision of a more 
responsible and inclusive future. 
8. Details of the highest authority 
responsible for implementation 
and oversight of the Business 
Responsibility policy(ies)
CSR Committee comprises of:
> 
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma
> 
Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli
> 
Mr. Gopalasamudram S Sundararajan
9. Does the entity have a specified 
Committee of the Board/ Director 
responsible for decision-making on 
sustainability related issues? (Yes / No). 
If yes, provide details
CSR committee shall be responsible for decision making and has 
approved the formulation of an ESG Committee to implement/ monitor its 
execution.
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was 
undertaken by Director / 
Committee of the Board/ Any 
other Committee
Frequency: Annually (A) / Half 
yearly (H) / Quarterly (Q) / Any 
other – please specify
P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9
Performance against 
above policies & follow 
up action
No
NIL
Compliance with statutory 
requirements of relevance 
to the principles, and 
rectification of any non-
compliances
Yes
Half yearly
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
11.
Has the entity carried out independent 
assessment/ evaluation of the working of 
its policies by an external agency? (Yes/
No). If yes, provide name of the agency.
No independent assessment has been carried out

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 152
Annual Report 
2023
129
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Questions
P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8
P9
The entity does not consider the Principles material to its 
business (Yes/No)
NA since question (1) above is Yes.
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate 
and implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical 
resources available for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
Any other reason (please specify)
12.	If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e., not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons 
to be stated:
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles 
and Core Elements with key processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as 
“Essential” and “Leadership”. While the essential indicators are expected to be disclosed by every 
entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be voluntarily disclosed by 
entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially, environmentally, and 
ethically responsible.
PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, 
and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable.
Essential Indicators
1.	 Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during 
the financial year:
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes 
held
Topics / principles covered under the 
training and its impact
%age of persons in 
respective category 
covered by the 
awareness programmes
Board of 
Directors (BoD)
1
1. Cyber Security Awareness
2. Overview of Data Privacy Bill
100%
Key Managerial 
Personnel 
(KMP)
2*
1. Cyber security training on LMS 
(Learning Management System)
2. POSH (Prevention of Sexual 
Harassment) on LMS.
The impact of these sessions was 
focused on building safe work 
environment and Company risk mitigation
The sessions were 
assigned to all 3 KMPs. 
Completion rate as 
below:
1. Cybersecurity digital 
module- 100%
2. POSH- 100% 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 153
Annual Report 
2023
130
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes 
held
Topics / principles covered under the 
training and its impact
%age of persons in 
respective category 
covered by the 
awareness programmes
Employees 
other than BoD 
and KMPs
41 Trainings 
(Unique count)
1. COC – (Company’s code of conduct)
2. Anti Money Laundering (AML) for 
designated employees (Compliance 
team)
3. Insider trading awareness
4. POSH Trainings
Career Aiding Skills for growth & 
development like:
1. Tech Upskilling - Cloud related 
skilling AWS & Tech Talks for 
knowledge sharing
2. Product Upskilling - Product related 
skilling & knowledge sharing for 
Product Managers
3. Behavioural Upskilling – Learning 
Hour for everyday soft skills, 
Customer Service, Team Leading, 
Campus to Corporate Program, 
Interviewing effectiveness etc.
4. Tool related skilling on topics like 
Excel, Python, SQL, etc.
• COC -Company’s 
Code of conduct 
82.76%
• Anti-money 
Laundering (AML) 
for designated 
employees 
(Compliance team) - 
100% 
• Insider trading 
awareness for 
targeted employees 
-100% 
• POSH Training - 70% 
• Career Aiding 
Skills for growth & 
development - 49% 
collectively
Workers
NIL
*Trainings were conducted for all the 3 KMPs but Amit Khera left the organization in mid-March 2023. However, he had completed 
the trainings assigned to him.
2. Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in 
proceedings (by the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions, in the financial year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make 
disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website):

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 154
Annual Report 
2023
131
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
NGRBC
Principle
Name of the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement 
agencies/ judicial 
institutions
Amount 
(In J)
Brief of the 
Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Monetary
Penalty/ Fine
P1-P9
NA
NIL
NA
NA
Settlement
P1-P9
NA
NIL
NA
NA
Compounding fee
P1-P9
NA
NIL
NA
NA
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ judicial 
institutions
Brief of 
the Case
Has an 
appeal been 
preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Non-Monetary
Imprisonment
P1-P9
NIL
No Case
NA
Punishment
P1-P9
NIL
No Case
NA
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/enforcement agency/
judicial intuitions
NIL
NA
3.	 Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in 
cases where monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed.
4.	 Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief 
and if available, provide a web link to the policy.
 
Yes, we have an Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. The Company is committed to 
maintaining highest level of professional and ethical standards in the conduct of its business. 
The Company has a zero tolerance towards bribery and corruption in any form, whether directly 
or indirectly through a third party. Further, the Company is committed to upholding all such laws 
and regulations, as may be applicable, in every jurisdiction where it has its operations.
 
Web Link - https://paytm.com/document/ir/policies-and-guidelines/Anti-Bribery-Anti-
Corruption-Policy-Ver1.2.pdf

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 155
Annual Report 
2023
132
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
5.	 Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken 
by any law enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
6.	 Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 22-23
Current 
Financial Year
FY 21-22
Previous 
Financial Year
Directors
NIL
NIL
KMPs
NIL
NIL
Employees
NIL
NIL
Workers
NIL
NIL
Particulars
FY 22-23  
Current Financial Year
FY 21-22
Previous Financial Year
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received 
in relation to issues of Conflict of 
Interest of the Directors
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Number of complaints received 
in relation to issues of Conflict of 
Interest of the KMPs
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
7. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties 
/ action taken by regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions on cases of corruption 
and conflicts of interest.
NIL

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 156
Annual Report 
2023
133
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
2 a. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
Yes. As a responsible corporation, the Company strives to reduce the environmental impacts of its 
operations. We aim at sourcing the most energy efficient and sustainable products (such as ensuring 
that all our electrical appliances are 5-star rated for energy efficiency) and services available in the 
market from known and reputed vendor.
b. If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
Currently, it is not being tracked
3 Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and 
disposing at the end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste 
and (d) other waste.
Given the nature of its business, the Company has limited scope to use recycled material as 
processed inputs. All waste that is generated on our premises is disposed-off to Government 
authorized agencies who have sorting/processing units of their own. 
FY 22-23
Current Financial 
Year
FY 21-22
Previous Financial 
Year
Details of Improvements in Environmental 
and social impacts
R&D (₹)
90%
68% Reduced 
paper 
usage, 
transitioning 
to 
software solutions and enhancing data 
management through adoption of Electronic 
Data Capture (EDC) devices, softwares 
capitalised, soundbox etc.
CAPEX (₹)
4%
0% Promoting sustainable growth of digital 
payments and enabling affordable access 
to financial services through additions to 
Project infinity – PG system developed in-
house.
Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is 
sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
1.	 Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to 
improve the environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex 
investments made by the entity, respectively.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 157
Annual Report 
2023
134
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
The Company has a process to dispose-off E - waste assets. We also strictly follow our E-Waste 
Policy for e-waste generated through our business activities. We dispose-off our e-waste through 
CPCB listed e-waste vendors.
https://business.paytm.com/ewaste-compliance-tnc
4 Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / 
No). If yes, whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility 
(EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
Yes, EPR E-waste, Plastic Waste and Battery Waste Management Rules are applicable to the 
Company, and the waste collection plan is in line with the EPR plan submitted to CPCB.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 158
Annual Report 
2023
135
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all 
employees, including those in their value chain.
Essential Indicators
1.	 a.	 Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
% of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health 
Insurance
Accident 
Insurance
Maternity 
Benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
Facilities *
Term Life 
Insurance
Number 
(B)
%
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
%
(C/A)
Number 
(D)
%
(D/A)
Number 
(E)
%
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
%
(F/A)
Number 
(G)
%
(G/A)
Permanent employees 17
Male
24,310
24,310 100% 24,310 100%
NA
NA
24,310
100%
NA
NA
24,310 100%
Female
1,649
1,649
100%
1,649
100%
1,649
100%
NA
NA
1,649
100%
1,649
100%
Total
25,959 25,959 100% 25,959 100%
1,649
6.35% 24,310 93.65%
1,649
6.35% 25,959 100%
Other than Permanent employees
Male
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Female
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Total
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Category
% of workers covered by
Total 
(A)
Health 
Insurance
Accident 
Insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
facilities
No. 
(B)
%
(B/A)
No.  
(C)
%
(C/A)
No.  
(D)
%
(D/A)
No.  
(E)
%
(E/A)
No. 
(F)
%  
(F/A)
Permanent workers
Male
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Female
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Total
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Other than Permanent workers
Male
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Female
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Total
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
b.	 Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
17 The Child day-care facility extends an enhanced employee benefit to support our colleagues with small children so that each of us can work 
towards our career aspirations without compromising on childcare. Further, enhanced childcare benefit policy reflects our commitment towards 
enabling workforce diversity and hybrid work model.
The Day care facility is applicable for mothers. This is in compliance with the Maternity Benefit Act,1961 as well as the relevant guidelines laid out by 
the Government.
For Single parents of either gender, either parent for same gender couples, Parents of either gender with a child clinically diagnosed with special 
needs (Physical or Mental disability), these are special cases and require approval of the Head of the Department. However, no such claim has been 
availed yet.
The children clinically diagnosed with special needs (Physical or Mental disability) are entitled to be admitted into a day-care centre that provides 
care for children with special needs.
*The Company doesn't have Day-care facility on the premises. Due to a large workforce working from home mode, we have tie-ups with nationally 
renowned third-party day-care facility centres in various cities which has been communicated to employees and full payment is provided directly to 
the day-care center.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 159
Annual Report 
2023
136
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
2.	 Details of retirement benefits, for Current Financial Year and Previous Financial Year.
Benefits
FY 22-23
Current Financial Year
FY 21-22
Previous Financial Year
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
% of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
% of total 
workers
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
% of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
% of total 
workers
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
99.89%*
NIL
Y
99.76%
NIL
Y
Gratuity
100%
NIL
NA
100%
NIL
NA
ESI
48.02%**
NIL
Y
29.17%
NIL
Y
Others - please 
specify
NIL
For FY’23:
* 28 out of 25,959 Employees have not opted for PF 
** 12,466 employees are covered in ESIC (32 MG & 12,434 SG)
For FY’22
* 26 out of 10,775 Employees have not opted for PF
** 3,143 employees are covered in ESIC (1 MG and 3142 SG)
3.	 Accessibility of workplaces
 
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, 
as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any 
steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
 
Yes, we have wheelchairs and signages for inclusive restrooms in our major office, which are 
accessible to persons with physical disabilities.  We also have ramps for easy access to the 
Company’s premises.
4.	 Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 
Act, 2016? If so, provide a web-link to the policy.
 
The Company has adopted an Equal Employment Opportunity Policy for Persons with Disabilities 
in order to comply with the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 along with the Right of 
Persons with Disabilities Rules, 2017 (“Act”)., to empower, protect and further the interests of 
persons with Disabilities employed in the Company. The policy outlines the company’s approach 
towards disabled employees.
 
a. This policy describes how we are creating an inclusive workplace and work culture in which 
disabled employees are treated with respect and dignity. 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 160
Annual Report 
2023
137
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Gender
Permanent Employees*
Permanent Workers
Return to 
work rate in %
Retention rate 
in %
Return to 
work rate in %
Retention rate 
in %
Male
100%
81.21%
NIL
NIL
Female
100%
68.63%
NIL
NIL
Total
100%
78.24%
NIL
NIL
 
b. This policy is designed to create equal opportunity(ies) in all aspects of employment for 
disabled persons and to maintain a non-discriminatory and inclusive work environment 
which enables robust career advancement for people with disabilities, including those who 
acquire Disability during their employment tenure.
 
c. This policy contains provisions to ensure that adequate facilities and amenities, as well as 
physical and digital infrastructure to cater to the needs of the persons with disabilities and 
to enable them to discharge their duties in the Company effectively.
 
The policy can be accessed at Equal Employment Opportunity Policy for Persons with Disabilities.
 
https://paytm.com/document/ir/policies-and-guidelines/Equal-opportunities-for-Employees.
pdf
5.	 Return to work and retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental 
leave.
* Above data does not include 37 employees who took parental leaves during FY 22-23 and they are due to return in the next fiscal 
year as their parental leave will end post 31st March 2023.
6.	 Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories 
of employees and worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Particulars
Yes/No (If yes give the details of the 
mechanisms in brief
Permanent workers
No
Other than permanent workers
No
Permanent Employees
Yes
Other than permanent employees
No
The Company has a robust employee grievance redressal mechanism which is managed through 
the Consequence Management Policy. It provides an easy and readily accessible redressal platform 
to the employees for prompt redressal of their grievances. The Company does not tolerate any 
direct or indirect retaliation against employees who raise grievances and will take necessary actions 
in case anyone is found to have engaged in any such retaliation. The employees and workers who 
face any kind of discontent or dissatisfaction owing to work or culture related issues, team related 
issues, or any other issue can report the same to the reporting manager/Skip manager/HR Business 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 161
Annual Report 
2023
138
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Partner/ HOD (head of the department) or CHRO (Chief Human Resources Officer) according to the 
defined stages for redressal in the policy. We also provide specific helpdesk IDs for queries related 
to PF (Provident Fund), payroll etc.
In addition, the Anti Bribery and Whistle-Blower mechanism provides a formal platform to share 
grievances on various matters. The Compliance Officer ensures the mandatory training of internal 
stakeholders once a year to enhance their compliance with our policies. The details of the grievance 
mechanism are shared with employees through a specific module. They can raise their concerns 
pertaining to bribery or corruption using our vigil mechanism. We have appointed Navex Global to 
facilitate reporting in a protected manner which will keep the identity of complainants confidential. 
The Company has a POSH Policy and has an Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) in compliance 
with the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 
2013. Our policy on the same is placed on the Company’s website. The ICC comprises a majority of 
women members. Members of the ICC are responsible for conducting inquiries pertaining to such 
complaints. On a regular basis, we sensitise our employees on the prevention of sexual harassment 
at the workplace through workshops, group meetings, online training modules and awareness 
programmes.
Link for POSH Policy- https://paytm.com/document/ir/policies-and-guidelines/Prevention-of-
Sexual-Harassment-at-Workplace-Policy.pdf
Link for Whistle-blower Policy- https://paytm.com/document/ir/policies-and-guidelines/Whistle-
Blower-Vigil-mechanism-policy.pdf
7. Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity:
Category
FY 22-23
Current Financial Year
FY 21-22
Previous Financial Year
Total 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category 
(A)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) or 
Union (B)
% (B/A)
Total 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category 
(C)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) 
or Union (D)
% (D/C)
Total Permanent Employees
Male
24,310
NIL
NIL
9,475
NIL
NIL
Female
1,649
NIL
NIL
1,300
NIL
NIL
Total Permanent Workers
Male
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Female
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 162
Annual Report 
2023
139
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
8.	 Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 22-23
Current Financial Year
FY 21-22
Previous Financial Year
Total 
(A)
On Health 
& Safety 
Measures
On Skill 
Upgradation
Total 
(D)
On Health 
& Safety 
Measures
On Skill 
Upgradation
No. (B)
% 
(B/A
No. (C)
% 
(C/A)
No. (E)
% 
(E/D)
No. ( F)
% 
(F/D)
Employees
Male
24,310
804
3.3%
11,754
48.4%
9,475
1023
10.8%
6019
63.5%
Female
1,649
296
17.9%
968
58.7%
1,300
140
10.7%
821
63.2%
Total
25,959
1,100
4.2%
12,722
49.0%
10,775
1163
10.8%
6840
63.5%
Workers
Male
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Female
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Total
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
9. Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Category
FY 22-23
Current Financial Year
FY 21-22
Previous Financial Year
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/C)
Employees
Male
24,310
22,308
91.8%
9,475
7,040
74.3%
Female
1,649
1,316
79.8%
1,300
813
62.5%
Total
25,959
23,624
91.0%
10,775
7,853
72.8%
Workers
Male
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Female
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Total
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Note: The employees who have joined on or before 30th Sept 2022 are the eligible employees for 
the annual performance review for FY’22-23
Front line sales are provided real time performance review on a monthly basis and are part of the 
career progression plan which enables them for a real time review and progression during the year.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 163
Annual Report 
2023
140
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
10. Health and safety management system:
a. Whether an occupational health 
and safety management system 
has been implemented by the 
entity? (Yes/No). If yes, the 
coverage such system?
Yes.
There are minimal occupational health and safety risks 
considering our nature of the business. 
While the Company is currently developing an exclusive OHS 
(Occupational Health and Safety) Policy and framework, 
employee well-being and safety continue to be a priority for 
the Company. The following Health and Safety management 
system have been implemented-:
a) The Company has ensured physical and electronic security 
including man-guarding, installation of Access Control 
Systems, CCTV monitoring, and fire-fighting systems at 
all our offices.
b) The 
admin 
team 
conducts 
emergency/disaster 
management drills, including fire-fighting drills at regular 
intervals in all offices. The buildings are in line with the 
National Building Code.
c) Offices are ergonomically designed with ergonomic 
modular furniture for the comfort of employees.
d) Central heating, ventilation, and cooling system with air 
filters are installed in the offices and there is a provision 
of fresh air in all our offices through the installation of air 
purifiers. Air purifying plants have been placed in all our 
offices that help in cleaning the indoor air.
e) Centralized helpline number for employees to reach out 
to the administration department for any work-related 
hazards.
f) The Company has tied up with nearby hospitals for 
emergency medical support.
g) Safe drinking water, hygienic and clean offices, and food 
safety are provided across all our offices.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 164
Annual Report 
2023
141
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
h) The Company’s admin team ensures periodic checks, 
maintenance, and certification of all electromechanical 
equipment including Lifts, HVAC (heat, ventilation and air 
conditioning), fire systems, DG (Diesel Generator) sets, 
UPS (Uninterruptible Power Supply).
i) For emergency support, oxygen concentrators, masks, and 
PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) kits were provisioned 
at all offices during Covid-19.
b. What are the processes used to 
identify work-related hazards 
and assess risks on a routine 
and non-routine basis by the 
entity?
To minimize the risks, the following checks are undertaken by 
the Company:
• Security Checks (Physical security including man-
guarding, Access Control System, CCTV monitoring, Fire-
fighting systems)
• Disaster Management Plan is in place and the Company 
conducts fire drill exercise annually.
• Water testing to measure Total Dissolved Solid (TDS) 
• Heating Ventilation Air Conditioning (HVAC) checks at 
regular intervals.
• Building safety, periodic maintenance of electromechanical 
devices like lifts, UPS, Diesel Generators
• Maintain office hygiene and cleanliness.
• Necessary precautions, such as installation of thermal 
scanners, office sanitization, and social distancing, were 
undertaken as per govt. guidelines to prevent the risks 
associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. 
• Hybrid Office System/Work from Home Policy was 
introduced.
• Security guards deployed at the bank premises are trained 
on fire safety equipment. 
• Regular advisories are issued on various safety-related 
aspects, such as weather warnings, fire safety and 
security, etc.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 165
Annual Report 
2023
142
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
c. Whether you have processes 
for workers to report the work-
related hazards and to remove 
themselves from such risks. 
(Y/N)
Yes, the centralized Helpline number and email is provided 
to all the employees to report any kind of risks. Our Quick 
Response Teams are deployed at all major offices for 
immediate support. The HR and Admin teams regularly 
organise sessions on health and safety awareness which 
are conducted by experts on different subject matters for all 
employees. Regular communication/mailers related to health 
and safety are also sent to all employees.
Mental health wellness sessions were organized for the 
employees in collaboration with doctors from prominent 
hospitals. We have tied up with various hospitals for employee 
discounts on medical tests and treatment. 
During COVID-19 pandemic, various initiatives were taken by 
the Company, such as office sanitisation, hand sanitisation, 
social distancing, and mandatory face masks as per Govt. 
guidelines. Vaccination drives were organised at all offices 
for our employees and their families. The team arranged 
and distributed masks, sanitizers, oxygen cylinders, and 
concentrators to safeguard employees’ health during the 
pandemic.
Mental health wellness sessions were organised for the 
employees in collaboration with doctors from prominent 
hospitals.
A total of 182 “Breast cancer sessions” and 168 sessions on 
“All about Headaches” were conducted.
d. Do the employees/ worker 
of the entity have access to 
non-occupational medical and 
healthcare services? (Yes/ No)
Yes. Employees and workers have medical and term insurance 
which covers the healthcare benefits for all the employees
11.	 Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 22-23
Current 
Financial Year
FY 21-22
Previous 
Financial Year
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 
(per one million-person hours worked)
Employees
NIL
NIL
Workers
NIL
NIL
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
NIL
NIL
Workers
NIL
NIL

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 166
Annual Report 
2023
143
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 22-23
Current 
Financial Year
FY 21-22
Previous 
Financial Year
No. of fatalities
Employees
11
37
Workers
NIL
NIL
High consequence work-related injury or 
ill-health (excluding fatalities)
Employees
NIL
NIL
Workers
NIL
NIL
12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
The following measures have been taken by the Company to ensure a safe and healthy workplace:
• Physical and electronic security measures, such as man guarding, Access Control System, CCTV 
monitoring and Fire-fighting systems.
• Fire and burglar alarms with fire and smoke sensors are installed for early fire detection.
• Fire extinguishers are available in all offices for immediate fire-fighting, and regular maintenance 
of the equipment is ensured.
• Comprehensive training and awareness about best practices and firefighting are provided to 
guards and employees. The Company conducts regular mock drills, fire drills, and physical 
verification of fire safety equipment, along with evacuation plans.
• Auto fire suppressants are installed in data/server rooms in selected offices.
• Earthling pits and lightning conductors are installed in buildings to discharge lightning safely.
• Important contact numbers for the nearest fire brigade, police station, ambulance, etc., are 
displayed at buildings/offices.
• Public address systems are installed at office premises to facilitate communication during 
emergencies.
• Emergency Evacuation plans, floor plans, and exit paths are displayed on each floor.
• CCTV cameras are used for detecting and recording all activities, including sabotage, if any.
• First-Aid Boxes are available in all offices, and regular first-aid training is provided to all employees 
and security guards.
• Employees’ dependents are enrolled under Mediclaim to provide medical coverage. 
• Free-of-cost shuttles are provided for employees to commute from the nearest metro station to 
the office, promoting convenience and reducing transportation risks.
• The Company ensures cleanliness and hygiene in the dining area to maintain a healthy 
environment.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 167
Annual Report 
2023
144
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
13. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 22-23
Current Financial Year
FY 21-22
Previous Financial Year
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
year
Remarks
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
year
Remarks
Working 
Conditions
NIL
NA
NIL
NIL
NA
NIL
Health & Safety
NIL
NA
NIL
NIL
NA
NIL
14.	Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed 
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
NIL
Working Conditions
NIL
Note: The Company offers world-class workplaces for its employees. These workplaces have well-
appointed, safe and hygienic workspaces and ambient conditions. There were queries on COVID-
related medical support which were handled and resolved by the COVID helpdesk.
SkymarkOne Noida building (which is the Company’s corporate office location) is an Indian Green 
Building Council Platinum certified building with indoor environmental quality more efficient than 
conventional designs like energy-efficient windows, LED lighting, energy-efficient appliances, 
geothermal heat pumps, energy-efficient insulation etc. Internal team assesses the health, safety, 
and environmental performance across applicable offices. Major offices are given training on fire 
safety and evacuation drills. Fire drills and audits are conducted in the office premises to ensure the 
maintenance of safety standards. 
During the year, there were no accidents of any employee of the Company whilst on duty. To 
prevent the spread of COVID-19, during the year, the Company took necessary precautions at all 
its offices, which included sanitation facilities, social distancing, installation of thermal scanners 
and installation of air purifiers which do not use chemicals or produce ozone. Detailed standard 
operating procedures and guidelines/advisories were issued periodically to the employees of the 
Company. The Company adheres to directives issued by the government/local authorities pertaining 
to COVID-19. 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 168
Annual Report 
2023
145
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
15.	Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents 
(if any) and on significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety 
practices and working conditions.
 
During the year, there were no accidents reported whilst on duty.
Leadership Indicator
1.	 Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death 
of (A) Employees (Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N).
 
Yes, we have GTL (Group term Life insurance coverage) for all the permanent employees and. 
Assistance for PF and Gratuity settlement is also extended to the family on the priority basis.
3.	 Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work- related 
injury / ill-health / fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been 
rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose family members have been placed 
in suitable employment:
Total no. of affected employees/ 
workers
No. of employees/workers that are 
rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members 
have been placed in suitable employment
FY 22-23
Current 
Financial Year
FY 21-22
Previous 
Financial Year
FY 22-23
Current Financial 
Year
FY 21-22
Previous Financial 
Year
Employees
11
37
NIL
1
Workers
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
4.	 Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and 
the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? 
(Yes/ No)
Yes. The Company provides gratuity to employees who fulfil the criteria at the time of retirement. 
The retiring employees also have detailed understanding of our business, processes and systems. 
Hence, in order to leverage such experienced people, we appoint them as an external consultant as 
per Company’s requirements on a case-to-case basis.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 169
Annual Report 
2023
146
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be 
responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
1.	 Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
 
The stakeholders have been identified on the basis of:
• those who are directly or indirectly related to our activities, products or services like employees 
or merchants;
• those for whom the Company has legal, commercial, operational, or ethical/moral responsibilities 
like regulatory bodies; and
• those who can influence or have impact on our decision-making like board/investors.
Stakeholders are the individuals or organizations that are internal or external to the Company and 
who have an interest in its operations. The favourable or adverse view of these stakeholders may 
have an impact on the reputation of the organization, which is why it is crucial to identify them. 
We believe healthy stakeholder relationships are key to long-term value creation. Anyone adding 
value to the business of the Company or anyone impacted by its operations are identified as a core 
stakeholder.
2.	 List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement 
with each stakeholder group.
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group 
(Yes/No)
Channels of 
communication 
(Email, SMS, 
Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Community 
Meetings, Notice 
Board, Website), 
Others
Frequency 
of 
engagement 
(Annually/   
Half/ yearly/ 
Quarterly/ 
others 
- please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of engagement 
including key topics and concerns 
raised during engagement
Employees
No
Emails
Weekly
• Learning and development
• Organizational updates
Newsletter
Quarterly
• Employee recognition and 
engagement activities
• Employee performance review 
and career development
Customers
No
Social Media
Weekly
To stay in touch with the customer 
throughout and address any issues 
that the customer may have

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 170
Annual Report 
2023
147
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group 
(Yes/No)
Channels of 
communication 
(Email, SMS, 
Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Community 
Meetings, Notice 
Board, Website), 
Others
Frequency 
of 
engagement 
(Annually/   
Half/ yearly/ 
Quarterly/ 
others 
- please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of engagement 
including key topics and concerns 
raised during engagement
Merchants
No
Business App
Everyday
• Resolving queries
• Support on the soundbox
• Support on information related 
to business with Company’s
Vendors/
suppliers
No
Emails
Everyday
• Resolving queries and assessing 
performance.
• Contract negotiation and 
exploring new scope of work
Partners
No
Emails
Fortnightly
Resolving queries and operational 
challenges
Shareholders/
investors
No
Face-to-face 
meetings
Monthly
• These are aimed at providing 
relevant information as well as 
understanding stakeholders’ 
perspectives on Company’s 
performance and strategy.
• To update them with the recent 
market development
Government 
bodies
No
Face to face 
meetings
Weekly
Discussions with relevant 
Ministries, Departments within 
Ministries, Sectoral Regulators, 
various Committees constituted 
by the Government on existing 
and proposed regulations / 
orders / directives and advisories 
undertaken on need basis.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 171
Annual Report 
2023
148
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group 
(Yes/No)
Channels of 
communication 
(Email, SMS, 
Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Community 
Meetings, Notice 
Board, Website), 
Others
Frequency 
of 
engagement 
(Annually/   
Half/ yearly/ 
Quarterly/ 
others 
- please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of engagement 
including key topics and concerns 
raised during engagement
Media
No
Emails
Monthly
Sustained brand narrative 
communication through press 
releases, social posts and SE 
filings. The announcements 
include partnerships, product 
launches, business updates and 
more. This also includes engaging 
with the media in industry 
stories, or resolving queries with 
spokesperson statements.
Board 
members
No
Board Meetings
Quarterly
Company conducts a proactive and 
focused engagements which helps 
identify significant material issues 
for the Company, evaluate business 
strategy and operations, products, 
services and solutions, to minimize 
reputational risk and positively 
influence our internal and external 
environment
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, 
environmental, and social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such 
consultations provided to the Board.
We have established a CSR committee which has an overall responsibility for the effective operation, 
setting guidance, direction and overseeing policies and progress on the Company’s ESG related 
activities and shall offer advice to the Board and management on these matters. The responsibilities 
of the CSR committee include the following:
• To formulate and recommend to the Board, a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy which shall 
indicate the activities to be undertaken by the Company as specified in Schedule VII of the 
Companies Act, 2013, as amended;

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 172
Annual Report 
2023
149
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
• To review and recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred on the CSR activities;
• To monitor the corporate social responsibility policy of the Company and its implementation 
from time to time;
• To monitor the Company’s ESG framework, strategy, goals and disclosures;
• To constitute an ESG sub-committee (management level committee) which will provide an 
oversight on key policies and programs required to implement ESG strategy as well as monitor 
its execution; and
• Any other matter as the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee may deem appropriate after 
approval of the Board or as may be directed by the Board from time to time and/or as may be 
required under applicable law, as and when amended from time to time.
2.	 Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management 
of environmental, and social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how 
the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were incorporated into policies and 
activities of the entity.
Yes, we consider stakeholder consultation a significant step towards identifying and managing ESG 
topics and have therefore conducted a materiality assessment exercise to this effect. The analysis 
included a finalisation of ESG issues material to our business viz. consultations with internal and 
external stakeholders inclusive of shareholders/investors, employees, customers, partners, vendors/
suppliers and merchants on the degree of relevance of our material topics. 
The material topics identified include business ethics & transparency, customer satisfaction, data 
privacy, financial inclusion & product innovation, employee wellness and talent management, 
community development and environment sensitivity/sustainable awareness.
Through this identification and prioritisation process, we aim to continue our sustainability journey. 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 173
Annual Report 
2023
150
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
1.	 Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy 
(ies) of the entity:
The Company promotes a culture of fairness and inclusion. Policies and processes like POSH, 
Whistleblower, Grievance Redressal, Equal Employment Opportunity, Code of Conduct etc. are 
in place to protect human rights of employees. The Company policies are well defined and the 
employees are regularly educated and trained as these policies are disseminated through the 
electronic medium.
Every employee has been given a briefing during their onboarding for these policies. Every employee 
undergoes a couple of mandatory training on LMS within 30 days of joining to get a deeper 
understanding. The respective team tracks these trainings and ensures that they are completed 
within a stipulated time.
Category
FY 22-23
Current Financial Year
FY 21-22
Previous Financial Year
Total (A)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers
covered (B)
% (B/A) Total (C)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers
covered (D)
% (D/C)
Employees
Permanent
25,959
21,484
82.76%
10,755
7,070
65.6%
Other than 
Permanent
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Total Employees
25,959
21,484
82.76%
10,755
7,070
65.6%
Workers
Permanent
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Other than 
Permanent
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Total Workers
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Note: Employees undergo COC trainings which broadly covers various aspects of human rights. 
The frontline salesforce team also undergoes such trainings as a refresher training by the regional 
SPOCs.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 174
Annual Report 
2023
151
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Category
FY 22-23
Current Financial Year
FY 21-22
Previous Financial Year
Total 
(A)
Equal 
Minimum 
Wage to
More than
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal
Minimum Wage 
To
Morethan
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
% 
(B/A
No. (C)
% 
(C/A)
No. (E)
% 
(E/D)
No. ( F)
% 
(F/D)
Employees
Permanent
Male
24,310
NIL
NIL
24,310
100%
9,475
NIL
NIL
9,475
100%
Female
1,649
NIL
NIL
1,649
100%
1,300
NIL
NIL
1,300
100%
Other than Permanent
Male
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Female
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Workers
Permanent
Male
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Female
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Other than Permanent
Male
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Female
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
2.	 Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
3.	 Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format
Gender
Male
Female
Number
Median 
remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category
Number
Median 
remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of
respective category
Board of Directors (BoD)
4 18
14.3
1
20.5
Key Managerial Personnel
2
31.8
NA
NIL
Employees other than BoD 
and KMP*
24,308
0.33
1,649
0.92
Workers
NIL
NA
NIL
NA
*in H lacs per month
18 This doesn’t include the Executive Directors who are covered in the KMPs (in below row), Mr. Mark Schwartz whose term as an 
Independent Director expired during the fiscal year and includes Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli who doesn’t draw any remuneration.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 175
Annual Report 
2023
152
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
4	 Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights 
impacts or issues caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
 
Yes. The internal team of the Company who owns Anti- Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Policy 
manage and oversee all the concerns/complaints raised via the whistle blower mechanism. The 
status of the said complaints is presented in the quarterly Audit Committee/Board meetings, in 
compliance with ABAC and Vigil Mechanism/Whistle Blower Mechanism Policy of the Company. 
 
The Company has zero tolerance for sexual harassment at workplace and is compliant with 
provisions relating to the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013. We have an ICC responsible to investigate and provide redressal for 
any kind of sexual harassment. A helpline number and a designated email ID for ICC is shared to 
employees to raise complaints or get counselling.
 
The Company also promotes a non-discriminatory work environment and abides by the equal 
opportunity for all policy. It also has a Consequence Management Policy where any kind of 
reported or suspected misconduct is corrected or investigated upon by following a disciplinary 
procedure setup by the disciplinary action committee. The committee is responsible for 
maintaining the repository of the investigations as well.
5	 Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights 
issues.
 
The organization has a Consequence Management Policy that makes the employees aware 
of the various corrective actions the Company might take against erring employees and the 
process that will follow if any misconduct is noticed/suspected/reported. The policy is available 
on the intranet, Deep Purple.
 
Our leadership fosters a culture of accessibility, providing employees with direct access to them 
through the HRMS platform for any grievances or concerns.
 
As per the whistle-blower mechanism, the Company expects all the stakeholders to comply with 
the mechanism and shall raise the concerns, if any, for the instances like bribery, suspicion of 
corruption, behavioural issues, discrimination etc via this vigil mechanism. The identity of the 
complainants shall remain confidential during the investigation and may be disclosed only on 
‘need to know’ basis. The Company has enabled web portal “Navex Global” to take anonymous 
complaints and facilitate reporting of the protected disclosures routed through the web links, 
toll-free number and application access mentioned in detail on the Intranet, Deep Purple. The 
details of the same are also available in the ABAC Policy as available on the Company’s website.
 
For every protected disclosure raised on the Navex portal, a unique case number allocated that 
can be further leveraged to provide necessary information and track the status of complaint 
raised by the complainant. The Company timely investigates all the complaints reported 
under the whistle blowing mechanism. The investigating team shall ensure compliance with 
all the regulatory requirements during the course of investigation. After the completion of the 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 176
Annual Report 
2023
153
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
investigation, a report is submitted with recommended measures to the concerned stakeholders 
(including the Disciplinary Action Committee) and appropriate disciplinary actions are initiated 
based on the findings and recommendations of such a report. The stakeholders are guided by 
the existing Consequence Management Policy. The policy reinforces the complainants, who 
raise complaints on a concrete and reasonable belief about a violation, that they will not be 
subjected to any kind of retaliation such as discrimination, reprisal, harassment, victimization 
etc. irrespective of the concern being ultimately substantiated.
6.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Category
FY 22-23
Current Financial Year
FY 21-22
Previous Financial Year
Filed 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of the year
Remarks
Filed 
during 
the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of the year
Remarks
Sexual 
Harassment
5
1
Out of the 4 disposed cases, 
1 case was withdrawn by the 
complainant. The 1 pending 
complaint has been closed after 
March 31, 2023 
3
1
One case 
withdrawn by 
the complainant
Discrimination   
at workplace
14
1
HR team was unable to 
investigate as the Complainant 
chose to remain anonymous and 
did not specify any names of the 
accused individual(s)
9
0
NIL
Child Labour
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Forced labour/
involuntary 
labour
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Wages
5
0
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Other human 
rights related 
issues (breach 
of Code of 
Conduct, 
Suspected 
Fraud, Bribery/
Kickbacks)
8
4
Complaints could not be 
investigated due to incomplete 
details. Reminders were sent to 
the Complainants via Navex Tool 
to share their contact details 
as well as details relating to the 
accused so that investigating 
team would be in a position to 
investigate the matters.
No response has been received 
from the Complainant yet.
9
9
NIL

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 177
Annual Report 
2023
154
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
7	 Mechanisms to prevent ad-verse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and 
harassment cases.
 
As mentioned in our Code of Conduct, the Company and all its affiliate Companies shall provide 
equal opportunities to all its employees / Personnel and all qualified applicants for employment 
without regard to their race, caste, religion, colour, ancestry, marital status, work experience, 
gender, sexual orientation, age, nationality, ethnic origin or disability.  We have adopted policies 
which reinforce to the stakeholders, who raise complaints on a concrete and reasonable belief 
about a violation, that they will not be subjected to any kind of retaliation such as discrimination, 
reprisal, harassment, victimization etc. irrespective of the concern being ultimately substantiated.
 
The Company has zero tolerance for any kind of harassment and discrimination. Our Human 
Resource policies and Code of Conduct promote diversity and equality in the workplace, as well 
as compliance with all local labour laws, while encouraging the adoption of international best 
practices.
 
Employee policies and practices are administered in a manner consistent with applicable laws 
and other provisions of this Code, respect for the right to privacy and the right to be heard, and 
that in all matters equal opportunity is provided to those eligible and decisions are based on 
merit.
 
In addition, The POSH Policy has been formed under the provisions of The Sexual Harassment 
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, to prohibit, prevent or 
deter the commission of acts of sexual harassment at workplace and to provide the procedure 
for the redressal of complaints pertaining to sexual harassment. In case any allegations of sexual 
harassment are substantiated by the ICC, appropriate disciplinary action shall be taken against 
the accused. Disciplinary action may include transfer, withholding promotion, suspension or 
even dismissal. This action shall be in addition to any legal recourse sought by the complainant.
 
The Company also has a whistle blower mechanism that empowers its employees to raise the 
concerns, if any, for the instances like bribery, suspicion of corruption, behavioural issues, 
discrimination etc via this vigil mechanism.  Complaints reported to any internal stakeholder 
(reporting manager/ HR team/ Compliance Officer) of any potential violation shall be channelled 
to the whistle blowing mechanism, immediately. The identity of the complainants shall remain 
confidential during the investigation. The Company has enabled the web portal “Navex Global” 
to take anonymous complaints and facilitate reporting of the protected disclosures routed 
through the web links, toll-free number and application access mentioned in detail on the 
Intranet, Deep Purple. The Company will timely investigate all the complaints reported under 
the whistle blowing mechanism after the due approval from a member of the Disciplinary Action 
Committee. The investigating team shall ensure compliance with all the regulatory requirements 
during the course of investigation. After the completion of the investigation, a report shall be 
submitted with recommended measures to the Disciplinary Action Committee. The Disciplinary 
Action Committee shall initiate disciplinary actions as appropriate based on the findings and 
recommendations of such a report. The committee would be guided by the existing Consequence 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 178
Annual Report 
2023
155
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
management Policy. The details of the same are also available in the ABAC Policy as available on 
the Company’s website.
 
The organization on a regular basis sensitises its employees on the prevention of sexual 
harassment at the workplace through workshops, group meetings, online training modules and 
awareness programmes which are held on a regular basis.
8	 Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts?
 
(Yes/No)
 
Yes, our Code of Conduct is applicable to all our employees, employees of service providers 
or vendors, employees of business partners, consultants, retainers, trainees or any individual 
engaged providing services to the Company who have to comply with all applicable laws, 
including labour laws which forms a part of our vendor/service provider contracts and business 
requirements.
9	 Assessment for the Year
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by 
entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child Labour
NIL
Forced/involuntary labour
NIL
Sexual Harassment
NIL
Discrimination at workplace
NIL
Wages
NIL
Others, please specify
NIL
10.	Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / 
concerns arising from the assessments at Question 9 above.
 
Not Applicable. Although, we internally make sure to amend and follow compliances from time 
to time. 
Leadership Indicator
3.	 Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
 
Yes
4.	 Details on assessment of value chain partners:

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 179
Annual Report 
2023
156
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
% of value chain partners (by value of business done 
with such partners) that were assessed
Sexual Harassment
This is currently not explicitly assessed or measured.
Discrimination at workplace
Child Labour
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
Wages
Others – please specify
Note: Terms and conditions incorporated in the Purchase order are already described and value 
chain partners are expected to follow terms and conditions 
Our Code of Conduct applies to all directors and employees of the Company, its subsidiaries and 
its affiliates, and employees of service providers or vendors, employees of business partners, 
consultants, retainers, trainees or any individual engaged providing services within the Company’s 
premises.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 180
Annual Report 
2023
157
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Principle 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore 
the environment.
Essential Indicators
1.	 Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the 
following format:
Parameter
FY 22-23
(Current 
Financial Year)
FY 21-22
(Previous 
Financial Year)
Total electricity consumption (A)
10,747.44 GJ
6,197.47 GJ
Total fuel consumption (B)
39,961.30 GJ
8,526.96 GJ
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
-
-
Total energy consumption (A+B+C)
50,708.74 GJ
14,724.43 GJ
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total energy consumption/ turnover in rupees)
841.22 J/H
378.29 J/H
Energy intensity (optional) - the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity
-
-
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an 
external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
No assessment/evaluation/assurance carried out by an external agency during the year.
2.	 Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under 
the Performance, Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, 
disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have 
not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
 
Not applicable
3.	 Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 22-23
(Current 
Financial Year)
FY 21-22
(Previous 
Financial Year)
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water
-
-
(ii) Groundwater
-
-
(iii) Third party water – Packaged drinking water
515
344
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
-
-
(v) Others - Municipal Supply
-
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)  
(i + ii + iii + iv + v)
515
344

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 181
Annual Report 
2023
158
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Parameter
FY 22-23
(Current 
Financial Year)
FY 21-22
(Previous 
Financial Year)
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
515
344
Water   intensity   per   rupee   of turnover (Water 
consumed / turnover)
0.00000854 L/H
0.00000884 L/H
Water   intensity (optional) -   the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity
-
-
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an 
external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
No assessment/evaluation/assurance carried out by an external agency during the year.
4.	 Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of 
its coverage and implementation.
 
Not applicable
5.	 Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the 
following format:
Parameter
Please specify 
unit
FY 22-23
(Current 
Financial Year)
FY 21-22
(Previous 
Financial Year)
NOx
TPY
35.75
7.81
SOx
TPY
0.50
0.12
Particulate matter (PM)
TPY
0.94
0.20
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
TPY
Not being tracked
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
TPY
4.64
1.00
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
TPY
0.0372
0.0082
Others – please Specify (CO)
TPY
23.03
4.91
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an 
external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
No assessment/evaluation/assurance carried out by an external agency during the year.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 182
Annual Report 
2023
159
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
6.	 Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, 
in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 22-23
(Current 
Financial Year)
FY 21-22
(Previous 
Financial Year)
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of 
the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, 
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
tCO2e
4,150.42
4,344.56
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of 
the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, 
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
tCO2e
2,125.01
1,185.42
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 
per rupee of turnover
KgCO2e/H
0.000104
0.000142
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission 
intensity (optional) - the relevant 
metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
-
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an 
external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
No assessment/evaluation/assurance carried out by an external agency during the year. 
7.	 Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then 
provide details.
 
We proudly represent our country in international forums, actively promoting sustainability 
efforts. Since December 2017, our CEO, Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma, has served as the United 
Nations Environment Programme's ("UNEP") Patron for Clean Air, playing a key role in driving 
environmental action and awareness. He advocates for UNEP's global #BreatheLife campaign, a 
significant initiative focused on improving air quality and encouraging policy changes and citizen 
involvement for a healthier future. Additionally, our Founder sits on the Advisory Board of the 
Green Digital Finance Alliance, established by Ant Financial Services and UNEP. This alliance 
aims to leverage digital finance and fintech-powered innovations to reshape the financial 
system, aligning it more effectively with the goals of sustainable development.
 
We are committed to adopting environmentally friendly practices in all our major offices to 
conserve energy. This includes using LED lights, prohibiting one-time use plastic, employing 
energy-efficient appliances, and implementing sensor-based water faucets and lighting systems 
in toilets, among other initiatives.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 183
Annual Report 
2023
160
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
8.	 Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 22-23
(Current 
Financial Year)
FY 21-22
(Previous 
Financial Year)
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
Not applicable
Not applicable
Flexible Plastic Waste
59 MT
NA –Authorization 
applied in the year 
2022
E-waste (B)
129.01 MT*
9.32 MT
Bio-medical waste (C)
Not applicable
Not applicable
Construction and demolition Waste (D)
Not applicable
Not applicable
Battery waste (E)
1.06 MT
0.90 MT
Radioactive waste (F)
Not applicable
Not applicable
Other Hazardous   waste.   Please specify, if any. (G)
Not applicable
Not applicable
Non-hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (H) (Break-up 
by composition i.e., by materials relevant to the sector) – 
1) Dry and wet waste (tissues, paper napkins, food 
leftovers, tea bags etc.)
2) Paper, magazines, cardboards, etc.  
13 MT
Data not captured 
for the last FY
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G+ H)
202.07 MT
10.22 MT
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or 
other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
 
 
(i) Recycled
202.07 MT
10.22 MT
(ii) Re-used
0
0
(iii) Other recovery operations – Coprocessing, 
Incineration with energy recovery
0
0
Total
202.07 MT
10.22 MT
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
 
 
(i) Incineration
NIL
NIL
(ii) Landfilling
NIL
NIL
(iii) Other disposal operations
NIL
NIL
Total
NIL
NIL
*The increase in electronic waste produced during the fiscal year 2022-23 can be attributed to Paytm's soundbox collection, 
retrieval, and upgrade campaign.
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an 
external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
No assessment/evaluation/assurance carried out by an external agency during the year.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 184
Annual Report 
2023
161
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
9.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe 
the strategy adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in 
your products and processes and the practices adopted to manage such wastes.
 
The nature of the Company’s business does not involve the use of hazardous or toxic chemicals. 
To handle e-waste responsibly, the Company has established comprehensive systems across 
all its locations in India. 
 
Our commitment to environmental responsibility extends to the disposal of e-waste assets, which 
are managed through a systematic process. We strictly adhere to our comprehensive E-Waste 
Policy, ensuring the proper disposal of E-waste resulting from our business activities. To meet 
these standards, we collaborate with e-waste vendors listed by CPCB, assuring responsible 
and compliant e-waste management practices throughout our operations. Additionally, the 
Company has formulated a comprehensive waste collection plan in strict adherence to the 
Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to CPCB.
 
To effectively manage other waste, the Company segregates and stores generated waste into 
two categories: dry waste and wet waste. Suitable bins are used for this purpose. All wastes 
generated in our premises is carefully managed through our partnership with Government 
authorized agencies equipped with sorting and processing units. 
10.	If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national 
parks, wildlife sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, 
coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals / clearances are required, 
please specify details in the following format:
S. 
No.
Location of 
operations/offices
Type of operations
Whether the conditions of environmental 
approval / clearance are being complied 
with? (Y/N) If no, the reasons thereof and 
corrective action taken, if any.
1
NIL
NIL
There are no offices and/or operating sites in 
or around ecologically sensitive areas where 
environmental approvals are required.
11.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on 
applicable laws, in the current financial year:
Name and 
brief details 
of project
EIA
Notification 
No.
Date
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency
(Yes / No)
Results 
communicated in 
public domain
(Yes / No)
Relevant 
Web link
NA. As per the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification 2006 environmental impact 
assessment is to be done by the third-party consultants for new projects only, the conditions are: 
built up area for covered construction ≥20,000 sq.mtrs and <1,50,000 sq.mtrs.
Since all offices have built-up area lesser than threshold, there is no requirement to undertake EIA.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 185
Annual Report 
2023
162
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
12.	Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; 
such as the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of 
Pollution) Act, Environment protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details 
of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
 
The Company is in compliance with all applicable environmental laws.
S. 
No.
Specify the law / 
regulation / guidelines 
which was not 
complied with
Provide details  
of the non- 
compliance
Any fines / penalties / action 
taken by regulatory agencies 
such as pollution control 
boards or by courts
Corrective 
action taken if 
any
NIL
NA
NA
NA
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Provide break-up of the total energy consumed (in Joules or multiples) from renewable and 
non-renewable sources, in the following format: 
Parameter
FY 22-23
(Current 
Financial Year)
FY 21-22
(Previous 
Financial Year)
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
NIL
NIL
Total fuel consumption (B)
NIL
NIL
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
NIL
NIL
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
NIL
NIL
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
10,747.44 GJ
6,197.47 GJ
Total fuel consumption (E)
39,961.30 GJ
8,526.96 GJ
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
NIL
NIL
Total energy consumed from non-renewable (D+E+F)
50,708.74 GJ
14,724.43 GJ
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an 
external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency. 
No assessment/evaluation/assurance carried out by an external agency during the year.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 186
Annual Report 
2023
163
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Parameter
FY 22-23
(Current 
Financial Year)
FY 21-22
(Previous 
Financial Year)
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i) To Surface water
NA
NA
 
- 
No treatment
 
- 
With treatment – please specify level of Treatment
(ii) To Groundwater
NA
NA
 
- 
No treatment
 
- 
With treatment – please specify level of Treatment
(iii) To Seawater
NA
NA
 
- 
No treatment
 
- 
With treatment – please specify level of Treatment
(iv) Sent to third-parties
NA
NA
 
- 
No treatment
 
- 
With treatment – please specify level of Treatment
(v) Others
NA
NA
 
- 
No treatment
 
- 
With treatment – please specify level of Treatment
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
NA
NA
2.	 Provide the following details related to water discharged: 
 
At all our operating sites, the effluents are treated through primary, secondary and tertiary 
systems and are reused in the process and domestic purpose.
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an 
external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
No assessment was carried out by an external agency during the year. 
4.	 Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 22-23
(Current 
Financial Year)
FY 21-22
(Previous 
Financial Year)
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the 
GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, 
SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes 
of CO2
equivalent
Not Done
Not Done
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
Not Done
Not Done
Total Scope 3 emission intensity 
(optional) – the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity
Not Done
Not Done

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 187
Annual Report 
2023
164
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an 
external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
No assessment being done.
5.	 With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators 
above, provide details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in 
such areas along-with prevention and remediation activities.
 
Not applicable
6.	 If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions 
to improve resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste 
generated, please provide details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per 
the following format:
S. 
No.
Initiative 
undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, 
may be provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
1
Paytm 
Soundbox
Paytm Soundbox provides instant audio 
confirmation for the amount received. It 
also has our All-in-One QR Code, enabling 
merchants to accept payments from 
multiple instruments like Paytm Wallet, 
Debit & Credit Cards, Net Banking and 
Paytm UPI.
The feature is available in 11 languages 
(English, Hindi, Kannada, Telugu, Tamil, 
Malayalam, 
Punjabi, 
Marathi, 
Gujarati, 
Bangla, Odia), which facilitated its usage 
across the country.
In last FY (01 April 2022- 31 March 
2023), a total of 13721 million 
Sound-box-based transactions 
have been completed through 
Paytm-enabled Sound boxes. 
This has enabled saving paper 
slips worth 12.07 million pounds 
in last one year. (Considering 
each paper slip 5.7cm*10 cm, 
having 70 GSM paper)
7.	 Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 
words/ web link.
 
The Company has a disaster management plan which defines the procedures to be followed 
in the event of a natural or man-made emergencies or disasters, political turmoil or criminal 
action which affects business operations and develops into emergency events. The Disaster 
Management Plan outlines the procedures to be followed in such event.
The Emergency Response Plan (ERP) process document covers the following aspects-:
• Formation of ERT (emergency response team): An Emergency Response Team (ERT) is a group 
of people who prepare for and respond towards any emergency incident. Natural calamities 
and unnatural disasters could be fires, explosions, the release of potentially toxic chemicals, 
falls from height, confined space incidents, acts of terrorism, etc. The ERT provides knowledge 
& awareness in building experience through an overview of emergency preparedness-related 
requirements.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 188
Annual Report 
2023
165
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
• Formation QRT (Quick response team): Quick Response Team shall operate on 24/7 basis as first 
responder and consists of one driver and two Civil Defence Volunteers trained in firefighting, 
search & rescue, first aid, etc. During a fire or other emergency, the Emergency Coordinator has 
primary responsibility for assisting firefighters and emergency personnel and coordinating the 
response of the staff and systems. Other responsibilities include designating and training of 
QRT in fire prevention technique.
• Incident Report: An incident report is a thorough documentation of the incident, including all 
relevant details that caused it and any outcomes reported. The incidents are required to be 
recorded & documented to serve as a guideline, in order to prepare, prevent and minimize the 
impact of such emergencies in future.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 189
Annual Report 
2023
166
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory 
policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent.
Essential Indicators
1.	 a.	 Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
 
The Company is affiliated to ten trade and industry chamber/associations.
b.	 List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based 
on the total members of such body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S. 
No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ 
associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ 
associations (State/National)
1
Associated Chambers of Commerce and 
Industry of India (ASSOCHAM)
National
2
International Chamber of Commerce (ICC)
National
3
National Association of Software and Services 
Companies (NASSCOM)
National
4
Internet & Mobile Association of India (IAMAI)
National
5
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
National
6
Payments Council of India (PCI)
National
7
Fintech Convergence Council (FCC)
National
8
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce 
and Industry (FICCI)
National
9
Alliance of Digital India Foundation (ADIF)
National
10
Advertising Standards Council of India
National
2	 Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti- competitive 
conduct by the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Name of Authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective action taken
There were no incidents of anti-competitive behaviour involving the Company during the 
reporting period (2022-23).

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 190
Annual Report 
2023
167
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
S. 
No. Public Policy Advocated
Method resorted 
for such advocacy
Whether 
information 
available 
in public 
domain 
(yes/no)
Frequency 
of Review 
(Annually/
Half 
yearly/ 
Quarterly/
Others– 
please 
specify)
Web-link, if 
available
1.
Submitted inputs on draft 
Digital Personal Data 
Protection Bill
Submission 
to Ministry of 
Electronics and 
Information 
Technology (MeitY), 
submission to 
Industry bodies
No
NA
NA
2
Submission requesting 
introduction of a new 
category of IoT devices for 
incentives under NABARD's 
Financial Inclusion Fund 
scheme and RBI’s Payments 
Infrastructure Development 
Scheme
Submission to 
industry bodies
No
NA
NA
3
Submission of detailed 
response to Telecom 
Regulatory Authority (TRAI) 
for implementation of Calling 
Name Presentation (CNAP) 
implementation for Telecom 
Networks in India.
Submission to TRAI
No
NA
NA
4
Submission to MeitY and 
Ministry of Home Affairs 
for implementation of 
Whitelisting for Fintech 
platforms on social media 
platforms
Submission to MeitY 
and Ministry of 
Home Affairs
No
NA
NA
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 191
Annual Report 
2023
168
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
S. 
No. Public Policy Advocated
Method resorted 
for such advocacy
Whether 
information 
available 
in public 
domain 
(yes/no)
Frequency 
of Review 
(Annually/
Half 
yearly/ 
Quarterly/
Others– 
please 
specify)
Web-link, if 
available
5
Submission to Dept. of 
Telecommunications for 
removal of restrictions on 
M2M SIM cards used in IOT 
based payment acceptance 
devices.
Submission 
to Dept. of 
Telecommunications 
No
NA
NA
6
Oral evidence to 
‘Parliamentary Standing 
Committee on Finance’ on 
the subject ‘Anti-competitive 
practices by Big Tech 
companies’
Oral evidence and 
Direct submission 
of response to 
Parliamentary 
Standing Committee
Yes
NA
https://
loksabhadocs.
nic.in/
lsscommittee/
Finance/17_
Finance_53.pdf 
7
Response to ‘Standing 
Committee on 
Communications & IT ‘on 
subject ‘Digital Payment and 
online security measures for 
data protection’
Direct submission to 
Standing Committee
No
NA
NA

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 192
Annual Report 
2023
169
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Name and 
brief details 
of the Project
SIA 
notification 
Number
Date of 
Notification
Weather 
conducted by 
independent 
external Agency 
(Yes or No)
Result 
communicated 
in Public Domain 
(Yes/No)
Relevant 
Weblink
No such project was initiated in the current financial year which requires Social Impact Assessment.
S. 
No.
Name of the Project 
for which R&R is 
going
State
District
Number of 
projects 
Affected 
Families
% of PAFs 
covered by 
R&R
Amount Paid 
to PAFs in 
FY (In H)
 NA
Principle 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable 
development
Essential Indicator
1.	 Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on 
applicable laws, in the current financial year.
2.	 Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is 
being undertaken by your entity, in the following format:
3.	 Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
 
Given the nature of the business, this is not applicable to the Company. 
4.	 Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
FY 22-23
Current 
Financial Year
FY 21-22
Previous 
Financial Year
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
NA
NA
Sourced directly from within the district and neighbouring 
districts
NA
NA
Leadership Indicator
1.	 Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social 
Impact Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of negative social impact Identified
Corrective Action Taken
Not applicable

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 193
Annual Report 
2023
170
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
2. Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated 
aspirational districts as identified by government bodies:
S. 
No. State
Aspirational 
district *
Amount 
spent (in H)
1.
UNEP - Air Quality Action Forum
Paytm Foundation in collaboration with UNEP has set 
up AQAF (Air Quality Action Forum). Till now under 
AQAF, consultation meetings have been organized 
with 80+ stakeholders on various issues concerning 
air pollution and solutions that could lead to preventing 
air pollution.
Our Reach - Pan India 
No
1,01,25,000
2.
Strengthening rural education and promoting digital 
skilling - Distribution of 150 laptops and dongles for 
education, research, digital skilling or overall growth 
and benefit to more than 2500 direct beneficiaries 
Our Reach – Himachal Pradesh
No
59,39,730
3.
Shikshit Bharat - An initiative by Paytm Foundation 
promoting education and digital literacy by donating 
10 laptops to underprivileged students. Our Reach –
Himachal Pradesh
No
30,000
* Projects have been undertaken through Paytm Foundation in other districts.
3a	Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from 
suppliers comprising marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
	
No
3b	From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?
	
There is a Procurement Policy in place, but the nature of business limits such purchases. 
During the year, the Company procured various articles from NGOs. These organizations serve 
communities from marginalized backgrounds.
3c	What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it consti-tute?
	
NA
Note: Even though the funds were released in FY 2022 - 2023, for the iTNT hub (as called out in the Board Report section of this 
Annual Report), the hub was inaugurated on 15th May 2023. Therefore the beneficiaries have not been identified here.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 194
Annual Report 
2023
171
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
S. 
No. CSR Project
No.  of persons 
benefitted from CSR 
Projects
% of beneficiaries 
from vulnerable and 
marginalized groups
1
Shikshit Bharat
30+
100%
2
Strengthening rural education and 
promoting digital skilling
2500+
NA
3
UNEP Air Quality Action Forum (AQAF) 
NA
NA
S. 
No.
Intellectual property 
based on traditional 
knowledge
Owned/Acquired 
(Yes/No)
Benefits Shared Yes 
or No
Basis of calculating 
benefits share
Not applicable
Name of the Authority
Brief of the case
Corrective Action taken
Not applicable
4.	 Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired 
by your entity (in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
5.	 Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual 
property related disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
6.	 Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 195
Annual Report 
2023
172
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Principles 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their 
consumers in a responsible manner
Essential Indicators
1.	 Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and 
feedback.
Grievance redressal-Lending
We have formulated an escalation matrix to ensure that concerns of the consumers are routed and 
addressed by the right team. The below escalation matrix is available for the consumers to read and 
understand in order to ensure a timely redressal of their concerns.
The Company recommends them to carefully go through the help pages that provide self-help 
to the customers. For queries and concerns that are not addressed through the help pages, the 
customers can contact the customer support team through the Paytm App. In order to create a 
ticket, they can click on the below links based on the Product.
Postpaid – 
Social Media Twitter Handle - @Paytmcare
24*7 In App Support - https://m.paytm.me/paytm_post
Personal Loan - 
Social Media Twitter Handle - @Paytmcare
24*7 In App Support - https://m.paytm.me/ccloan
Co-Branded Credit Cards
Social Media Twitter Handle - @Paytmcare
24*7 In App Support – https://m.paytm.me/paytm_crecard
Merchant Cash Advance
24*7 In App Support – https://b.paytm.me/Help_Support (Please use via Mobile)
Call Center - 0120-4440440
Social Media – 
https://twitter.com/PaytmBusiness
https://www.facebook.com/Paytmforbusiness
https://www.instagram.com/paytmbusiness/
https://www.linkedin.com/company/paytm-for-business/
Our in-app support channel is able to resolve a vast majority of customer complaints. In any 
uncommon scenario, where one wishes to escalate the concern to next level, one needs to ensure 
that they have already exhausted the previous level(s) and their concern remains un-resolved or 
not resolved to their satisfaction.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 196
Annual Report 
2023
173
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Service Levels
Service Levels for Lending Products
Level 1
Complaints Registration:
• One can register complaint with our Customer Support by clicking on any of the above links.
• We offer customer support service 24 hours a day and 7 days a week.
Resolution of Complaints:
• We are committed to providing customers with our first response within 24 hours of receiving 
the complaint.
• Resolution of the complaint may get delayed due to operational or technical reasons. In such a 
scenario, concerned customers will be proactively informed of the timelines during which their 
complaint will be addressed.
• Complaints related to ‘Suspected Fraud’ often take longer to investigate due to the involvement 
of multiple agencies. The resolution time in such cases is dependent on the severity and 
complexity of the case. One shall be proactively informed of the timelines in such cases.
Level 2
1. Complaints Registration: Before reaching out to Level 2, we request the customers to contact 
Level 1 support channels mentioned above. If they have already reached out to Level 1 and have 
not received a satisfactory resolution, they can share the details of their complaint on the below 
e-mail ID.
2. Important Note – Complainant will need to mention the Level 1 Ticket # in the subject line of 
the e-mail. If complainant does not have a Level 1 ticket #, they can always raise a ticket using 
the links. Any complaint at Level 2 will not be entertained if the Level 1 ticket number is not 
mentioned. 
 
• One can register a complaint on grievance-redressal_lending@paytm.com. 
3. Resolution of Complaints:
 
• We are committed to providing a first response within 24 hours of receiving the complaint.
 
• We aim to resolve all Level 2 complaints within 3 business days. Any delay in the resolution 
time shall be proactively communicated to the concerned customer.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 197
Annual Report 
2023
174
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
2. Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that 
carry information about:
As a percentage to total 
turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the products
NA
Safe and responsible usages 
NA
Recycling and /or safe disposal
NA
3. Number of consumer complaints in respect of following:
Category
FY 22-23
(Current Financial Year)
FY 21-22
(Previous Financial Year)
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
year
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
year
Remarks
Data privacy
 6
2
-
0
0
-
Advertising
5
0
-
0
0
-
Cyber-security
0
0
-
0
0
-
Delivery of 
Essential Services
-
-
-
-
-
-
Restrictive Trade 
Practices
-
-
-
-
-
-
Unfair Trade 
Practices
-
-
-
-
-
-
Other
9,900
52
-
1,784
35
-
4.	 Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
Reasons for Recall
Voluntary recalls
NIL
Forced recalls
5.	 Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? 
(Yes/No) If available, provide a web-link of the policy.
 
Yes. 
 
Privacy Policy (paytm.com)
 
https://paytm.com/company/terms-and-conditions?company=one97&tab=privacy

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 198
Annual Report 
2023
175
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
6.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, 
and delivery of essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence 
of instances of product recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of 
products / services.
 
No penalties/regulatory action has been levied or taken on the above-mentioned parameters. 
Leadership Indicator
1
Channels / 
platforms where 
information on 
products and 
services of the 
entity can be 
accessed (provide 
web link, if 
available).
Customer awareness articles and campaigns on Print and social media 
Through its various campaigns, the Company has ensured that its users 
get the right information and are made aware of all the features that 
make their life simpler. We regularly update users with information to 
prevent cyber frauds through the app, social media, blogs and articles. 
Blogs:
Paytm QR and Paytm UPI Are Free: Understanding the Latest NPCI 
Circular On Wallet Interoperability With UPI
https://paytm.com/blog/payments/upi/paytm-qr-and-paytm-
upi-are-free-understanding-the-latest-npci-circular-on-wallet-
interoperability-with-upi/
Paytm UPI LITE now active on these 10 banks for lightning-fast payments
https://paytm.com/blog/payments/paytm-upi-lite-now-active-on-
these-10-banks/
Launching Cancel Protect for Train Tickets – Empowering Users with 
100% Refund on Cancellation, Avail Instant Refund With No Questions 
Asked Policy
https://paytm.com/blog/investor-relations/paytm-empowers-users-to-
get-100-refund-on-cancellation-of-train-tickets-with-cancel-protect-
provides-instant-refund-with-no-questions-asked-policy/
How to Set up a UPI Lite Account on Paytm?
https://paytm.com/blog/payments/upi/how-to-set-up-a-upi-lite-
account-on-paytm/
The company signed MoU with Government of Andhra Pradesh at 
Global Investors Summit 2023, to drive initiatives in Financial Inclusion, 
Public Health, Cyber Security
https://paytm.com/blog/payments/corporate/paytm-signs-mou-with-
government-of-andhra-pradesh-at-global-investors-summit-2023/
Announcing our collaboration with MeitY for ‘G20-Stay Safe Online’ 
Campaign, to drive greater awareness among citizens on Cyber Safety
https://paytm.com/blog/payments/our-collaboration-with-meity-for-
g20-stay-safe-online-campaign/
India’s Pioneer in Digital Payments Paytm Launched UPI LITE for 
Seamless UPI Transactions
https://paytm.com/blog/payments/upi/paytm-launched-upi-lite-for-
seamless-upi-transactions/

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 199
Annual Report 
2023
176
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Simplify Loan Repayment with Paytm’s EMI Options
https://paytm.com/blog/loan/loan-repayment-with-paytms-emi-
options/
We are truly the Pioneer of QR Payments – How We Are Enabling India’s 
Small Vendors
https://paytm.com/blog/investor-relations/paytm-is-truly-the-pioneer-
of-qr-payments-how-we-are-enabling-indias-small-vendors/
How does Credit Score Help in Availing Loan?
https://paytm.com/blog/credit-score/how-does-credit-score-help-in-
availing-loan/
Guide to Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana
https://paytm.com/blog/saving-schemes/guide-to-pradhan-mantri-
garib-kalyan-yojana/
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Scheme: Documents Required, Eligibility 
& Features
https://paytm.com/blog/saving-schemes/government-schemes/pmay-
pradhan-mantri-awas-yojana-scheme/
Short Term FD Vs Long Term FD- Which is the Better Option of 
Investment?
https://paytm.com/blog/fixed-deposit/short-term-fd-vs-long-term-fd/
Detect Fake SMSs within Seconds! 
https://paytm.com/blog/paytm-help/how-to-detect-fake-sms/
New Income Tax Slab Rates for FY 2023-24
https://paytm.com/blog/income-tax/check-the-new-income-tax-
slabs-update/
Key Highlights & Takeaways of Union Budget
https://paytm.com/blog/tax/key-highlights-of-union-budget/
2
Steps taken to 
inform and educate 
consumers about 
safe and respon-
sible usage of 
products and/or 
services.
We comply with all disclosure requirements relating to its products 
and services, as per AMFI/SEBI guidelines. Furthermore, the Company 
proactively takes measures to educate its customers and issues general 
advisory to all users to protect them from malicious activities such as 
cyber fraud.
3
Mechanisms in 
place to inform 
consumers of any 
risk of disruption/
discontinuation of 
essential services
We proactively inform our customers whenever in case of out-ages 
through SMS and our app. Communications on any dis-ruption/ 
discontinuation of essential services, albeit rare, are in-timated to 
customers through emails, call centres, the Company’s website and 
other modes of electronic communication.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 200
Annual Report 
2023
177
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
4
Does the entity 
display product 
information on 
the product over 
and above what is 
mandated as per 
local laws? (Yes/
No/Not Applicable) 
If yes, provide 
details in brief. Did 
your entity carry 
out any survey with 
regard to consumer 
satisfaction relating 
to the major 
products / services 
of the entity, 
significant locations 
of operation of the 
entity or the entity 
as a whole? (Yes/
No)
Our primary research work includes surveys and in-depth interviews of 
consumers, customers and other relevant ecosystem participants, and 
consultations with market participants and experts. In addition to the 
primary research, quantitative market information is also derived based 
on data from trusted portals and industry publications.
We seek feedback from our customers quarterly and customer 
complaints/grievances are reviewed for a root cause analysis, which 
also gives opportunity to improve the services.
Annual Customer Surveys are conducted and the recent customer 
survey shows
The drivers that impact the overall satisfaction are taken into account 
and the teamwork towards improving the gaps
5
Provide the following 
information relating 
to data breaches:
a. Number of 
instances of data 
breaches along-
with impact
b. Percentage of 
data breaches 
involving 
personally 
identifiable 
information of 
customers
a) No cases
b) The Company did not witness any instances of data breaches during 
the year. We also have cyber risk insurance policies

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 201
Annual Report 
2023
178
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility 
& Sustainability Report
Financial 
Statements

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 202
Annual Report 
2023
179
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Report on the Audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion 
1. We have audited the accompanying 
Standalone Financial Statements of One 97 
Communications Limited (“the Company”), 
which comprise the Standalone Balance Sheet 
as at March 31, 2023, and the Standalone 
Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other 
Comprehensive Income), the Standalone 
Statement of Changes in Equity and the 
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows for the 
year then ended, and notes to the Standalone 
Financial Statements, including a summary 
of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information. 
2. In our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given 
to us, the aforesaid Standalone Financial 
Statements give the information required 
by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act") in 
the manner so required and give a true and 
fair view in conformity with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, of the 
state of affairs of the Company as at March 
31, 2023, and total comprehensive income 
(comprising of loss and other comprehensive 
income), changes in equity and its cash flows 
for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
3. We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under 
Section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities 
under those Standards are further described 
in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit 
of the Standalone Financial Statements” 
section of our report. We are independent of 
the Company in accordance with the Code 
of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India together with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of 
the Standalone Financial Statements under 
the provisions of the Act and the Rules 
thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other 
ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements and the Code of Ethics. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinion.
Key Audit Matters 
4. Key audit matters are those matters that, in 
our professional judgement, were of most 
significance in our audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements of the current period. 
These matters were addressed in the context 
of our audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements as a whole and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. 
To the Members of One 97 Communications Limited

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 203
Annual Report 
2023
180
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Key audit matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Assessment of carrying value of investment 
in subsidiaries and associates carried at cost
(Refer accompanying notes 2.2(k), 2.2(o), 2.2 
(v), 5, 6 and 21 to the Standalone Financial 
Statements)
The Company has equity investments in various 
subsidiaries and associates. The Company 
accounts for equity investments in subsidiaries 
and associates at cost (subject to impairment 
assessment).
For investments carried at cost where an 
indication of impairment exists, the carrying 
value of investment is assessed for impairment 
and where applicable an impairment provision 
is recognized, if required.
The accounting for investments is a key audit 
matter as the determination of recoverable 
value for impairment assessment involves 
significant management judgement.
In measuring these investments, valuation 
methods are used based on inputs that are 
not directly observable from market information 
and certain other unobservable inputs. The 
key inputs and judgements involved in the 
impairment of investments include:
i) Forecast cash flows including assumptions 
on growth rates
ii) Discount rates
iii) Terminal growth rate
Our procedures to assess the carrying value of 
investment (including impairment) in subsidiaries, 
and associates included the following:
• We obtained an understanding from the 
management, assessed and tested the design 
and operating effectiveness of the Company’s 
key controls over the impairment assessment of 
material investments.
• We evaluated the Company’s process regarding 
impairment assessment by involving auditor’s 
valuation experts to assist in assessing the 
appropriateness of the impairment model including 
the independent assessment of the underlying 
assumptions relating to cash flow, discount rate, 
terminal value, etc. for material investments.
• We checked the mathematical accuracy of the 
impairment model and agreed relevant data back 
to the latest budgets, actual past results and other 
supporting documents.
• We assessed the Company’s sensitivity analysis 
and evaluated whether any reasonably foreseeable 
change in assumptions could lead to impairment 
or material change in the carrying value.
• We assessed adequacy of relevant disclosures in 
the Standalone Financial Statements.
Based on the above audit procedures performed, the 
Management’s assessment of the carrying value of 
the investments was considered to be reasonable.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 204
Annual Report 
2023
181
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Other Information
5. The Company’s Board of Directors is 
responsible for the other information. The 
other information comprises the Board’s 
Report, Corporate Governance Report, 
Management Discussion and Analysis Report 
and Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report but does not include the Standalone 
Financial Statements and our auditor’s report 
thereon. The Board’s Report, Corporate 
Governance Report, Management Discussion 
and Analysis Report, Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report are expected to be 
made available to us after the date of this 
auditor's report. Our opinion on the Standalone 
Financial Statements does not cover the other 
information and we will not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon. In connection 
with our audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements, our responsibility is to read the 
other information identified above when it 
becomes available and, in doing so, consider 
whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the Standalone Financial 
Statements  or our knowledge obtained in the 
audit, or otherwise appears to be materially 
misstated. When we read the Board’s Report, 
Corporate Governance Report, Management 
Discussion and Analysis Report, Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report, if we 
conclude that there is a material misstatement 
therein, we are required to communicate the 
matter to those charged with governance and 
take appropriate action as applicable under 
the relevant laws and regulations.
Responsibilities of Management and 
Those Charged With Governance for 
the Standalone Financial Statements
6. The Company’s Board of Directors is 
responsible for the matters stated in Section 
134(5) of the Act with respect to the 
preparation of these Standalone Financial 
Statements that give a true and fair view of 
the financial position, financial performance, 
changes in equity and cash flows of the 
Company in accordance with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, including 
the Accounting Standards specified under 
Section 133 of the Act. This responsibility also 
includes maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of 
the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the 
Company and for preventing and detecting 
frauds and other irregularities; selection 
and application of appropriate accounting 
policies; making judgements and estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent; and design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls, that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, 
relevant to the preparation and presentation 
of the Standalone Financial Statements that 
give a true and fair view and are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error. 
7. In preparing the Standalone Financial 
Statements, management is responsible for 
assessing the Company’s ability to continue 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 205
Annual Report 
2023
182
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, 
matters related to going concern and using 
the going concern basis of accounting unless 
management either intends to liquidate the 
Company or to cease operations, or has 
no realistic alternative but to do so. Those 
Board of Directors are also responsible for 
overseeing the Company’s financial reporting 
process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit 
of the Standalone Financial Statements
8. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether the Standalone 
Financial Statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that 
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is 
a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee 
that an audit conducted in accordance with 
SAs will always detect a material misstatement 
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from 
fraud or error and are considered material if, 
individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of users taken on the basis 
of these Standalone Financial Statements. 
9. As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we 
exercise professional judgement and maintain 
professional scepticism throughout the audit. 
We also:
 
• Identify and assess the risks of material 
misstatement of the Standalone Financial 
Statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit 
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk 
of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one 
resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control. 
 
• Obtain an understanding of internal control 
relevant to the audit in order to design 
audit procedures that are appropriate in 
the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)
(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for 
expressing our opinion on whether the 
Company has adequate internal financial 
controls with reference to financial 
statements in place and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls. 
 
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting 
policies used and the reasonableness 
of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by management.
 
• Conclude on the appropriateness of 
management’s use of the going concern 
basis of accounting and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material 
uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt 
on the Company’s ability to continue as 
a going concern. If we conclude that a 
material uncertainty exists, we are required 
to draw attention in our auditor’s report to 
the related disclosures in the Standalone 
Financial Statements or, if such disclosures 
are inadequate, to modify our opinion. 
Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our 
auditor’s report. However, future events 
or conditions may cause the Company to 
cease to continue as a going concern.  

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 206
Annual Report 
2023
183
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
 
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure 
and content of the financial statements, 
including the disclosures, and whether the 
Standalone Financial Statements represent 
the underlying transactions and events in 
a manner that achieves fair presentation.
10. We communicate with those charged with 
governance regarding, among other matters, 
the planned scope and timing of the audit 
and significant audit findings, including any 
significant deficiencies in internal control that 
we identify during our audit.
11. We also provide those charged with 
governance with a statement that we have 
complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters 
that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related 
safeguards. 
12. From the matters communicated with those 
charged with governance, we determine those 
matters that were of most significance in the 
audit of the Standalone Financial Statements 
of the current period and are therefore the key 
audit matters. We describe these matters in 
our auditor’s report unless law or regulation 
precludes public disclosure about the matter 
or when, in extremely rare circumstances, 
we determine that a matter should not be 
communicated in our report because the 
adverse consequences of doing so would 
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements 
13. As required by the Companies (Auditor’s 
Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”), issued by 
the Central Government of India in terms of 
sub-section (11) of Section 143 of the Act, 
we give in the Annexure B, a statement on 
the matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 
of the Order, to the extent applicable.  
14. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we 
report that: 
 
(a) We have sought and obtained all the 
information and explanations which to 
the best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit. 
 
(b) In our opinion, proper books of account 
as required by law have been kept by the 
Company so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books. 
 
(c) The Standalone Balance Sheet, the 
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss 
(including other comprehensive income), 
the Standalone Statement of Changes in 
Equity and the Standalone Statement of 
Cash Flows dealt with by this Report are 
in agreement with the books of account. 
 
(d) In our opinion, the aforesaid Standalone 
Financial Statements comply with the 
Accounting Standards specified under 
Section 133 of the Act. 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 207
Annual Report 
2023
184
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
 
(e) On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors as on March 
31, 2023 taken on record by the Board 
of Directors, none of the directors is 
disqualified as on March 31, 2023 from 
being appointed as a director in terms of 
Section 164(2) of the Act.
 
(f) With respect to the adequacy of the 
internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements of the Company 
and the operating effectiveness of such 
controls, refer to our separate Report in 
“Annexure A”.  
 
(g) With respect to the other matters to 
be included in the Auditor’s Report in 
accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as 
amended), in our opinion and to the best 
of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us:  
 
 
i. 
The Company has disclosed the impact 
of pending litigations on its financial 
position in its Standalone Financial 
Statements – Refer Note 28(c) to the 
Standalone Financial Statements; 
 
 
ii. The Company has made provision as at 
March 31, 2023, as required under the 
applicable law or accounting standards, 
for material foreseeable losses, if any, 
on long-term contracts.  The Company 
did not have any derivative contracts 
as at March 31, 2023.
 
 
iii. There were no amounts which were 
required to be transferred to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund 
by the Company during the year ended 
March 31, 2023.
 
 
iv. (a) The management has represented 
that, to the best of its knowledge 
and belief, other than as disclosed in 
the notes to the accounts, no funds 
have been advanced or loaned or 
invested (either from borrowed 
funds or share premium or any 
other sources or kind of funds) by 
the Company to or in any other 
person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), 
with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly, lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Company (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries 
(Refer Note 41(i)(a) to the 
Standalone Financial Statements);
 
 
 
(b) The management has represented 
that, to the best of its knowledge 
and belief, as disclosed in the notes 
to the accounts, no funds have 
been received by the Company 
from any person(s) or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities (“Funding 
Parties”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or 
otherwise, that the Company shall, 
whether, directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding 
Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provide any guarantee, security or 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 208
Annual Report 
2023
185
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries (Refer Note 41(i)
(b) to the Standalone Financial 
Statements); and
 
 
 
(c) Based on such audit procedures 
that we considered reasonable and 
appropriate in the circumstances, 
nothing has come to our notice that 
has caused us to believe that the 
representations under sub-clause 
(a) and (b) contain any material 
misstatement.
 
 
v. The Company has not declared or paid 
any dividend during the year. 
 
 
vi. As proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 (as amended), 
which provides for books of account to 
have the feature of audit trail, edit log 
and related  matters in the accounting 
software used by the Company, is 
applicable to the Company only with 
effect from financial year beginning 
April 1, 2023, the reporting under 
clause (g) of Rule 11 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as 
amended), is currently not applicable.
15. The Company has paid/ provided for 
managerial remuneration in accordance with 
the requisite approvals mandated by the 
provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule 
V to the Act.
 
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
 
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
	
Amitesh Dutta
 
Partner
Place: Gurugram 
Membership Number: 058507
Date: May 5, 2023 
UDIN: 23058507BGYAXW2657

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 209
Annual Report 
2023
186
Financial Statements
Annexure A to Independent Auditor’s Report
Referred to in paragraph 14(f) of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members 
of One 97 Communications Limited on the Standalone Financial Statements as of and for the year 
ended March 31, 2023
Report on the Internal Financial Controls 
with reference to Financial Statements 
under clause (i) of sub-section 3 of 
Section 143 of the Act
1. We have audited the internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements of One 
97 Communications Limited (“the Company”) 
as of March 31, 2023 in conjunction with our 
audit of the Standalone Financial Statements 
of the Company for the year ended on that 
date.
Management’s Responsibility for 
Internal Financial Controls
2. The Company’s management is responsible for 
establishing and maintaining internal financial 
controls based on the internal control over 
financial reporting criteria established by the 
Company considering the essential components 
of internal control stated in the Guidance Note 
on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over 
Financial Reporting (“the Guidance Note”) 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities include 
the design, implementation and maintenance 
of adequate internal financial controls that 
were operating effectively for ensuring the 
orderly and efficient conduct of its business, 
including adherence to company’s policies, the 
safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and 
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, 
and the timely preparation of reliable financial 
information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
3. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on 
the Company's internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements based on our 
audit. We conducted our audit in accordance 
with the Guidance Note and the Standards on 
Auditing deemed to be prescribed under Section 
143(10) of the Act to the extent applicable to 
an audit of internal financial controls, both 
applicable to an audit of internal financial controls 
and both issued by the ICAI. Those Standards 
and the Guidance Note require that we comply 
with ethical requirements and plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether adequate internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements was 
established and maintained and if such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects. 
4. Our audit involves performing procedures to 
obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the 
internal financial controls system with reference 
to financial statements and their operating 
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements 
included obtaining an understanding of internal 
financial controls with reference to financial 
statements, assessing the risk that a material 
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating 
the design and operating effectiveness of 
internal control based on the assessed risk. The 
procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the 
risks of material misstatement of the financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 210
Annual Report 
2023
187
Financial Statements
Annexure A to Independent Auditor’s Report
5. We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
Company’s internal financial controls system 
with reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls 
with reference to financial statements
6. A company's internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements is a process 
designed to provide reasonable assurance 
regarding the reliability of financial reporting 
and the preparation of financial statements for 
external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A company's 
internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements includes those policies and 
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of 
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and 
fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions 
of the assets of the company; (2) provide 
reasonable assurance that transactions are 
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of 
financial statements in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts 
and expenditures of the company are being 
made only in accordance with authorisations 
of management and directors of the company; 
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorised 
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's 
assets that could have a material effect on the 
financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial 
Controls with reference to financial 
statements
7. Because of the inherent limitations of internal 
financial controls with reference to financial 
statements, including the possibility of collusion 
or improper management override of controls, 
material misstatements due to error or fraud may 
occur and not be detected. Also, projections of 
any evaluation of the internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements to future 
periods are subject to the risk that the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial 
statements may become inadequate because 
of changes in conditions, or that the degree of 
compliance with the policies or procedures may 
deteriorate. 
Opinion
8. In our opinion, the Company has, in all material 
respects, an adequate internal financial 
controls system with reference to financial 
statements and such internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements were 
operating effectively as at March 31, 2023, 
based on the internal control over financial 
reporting criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note 
issued by ICAI. 
 
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
 
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
	
Amitesh Dutta
 
Partner
Place: Gurugram 
Membership Number: 058507
Date: May 5, 2023 
UDIN: 23058507BGYAXW2657

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 211
Annual Report 
2023
188
Financial Statements
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report
Referred to in paragraph 13 of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of One 
97 Communications Limited on the Standalone Financial Statements as of and for the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
i. 
(a) (A) The Company is maintaining proper 
records showing full particulars, 
including quantitative details and 
situation, of Property, Plant and 
Equipment.
 
 
(B) The Company is maintaining proper 
records showing full particulars of 
Intangible Assets.
 
(b) The Property, Plant and Equipment of 
the Company, are physically verified by 
the Management according to a phased 
programme designed to cover all the items 
over a period of three years which, in our 
opinion, is reasonable having regard to 
the size of the Company and the nature of 
its assets. Pursuant to the programme, a 
portion of the Property, Plant and Equipment 
has been physically verified by the 
Management during the year and no material 
discrepancies have been noticed on such 
verification. According to the information 
and explanations given to us, the existence 
of Point of Sale (POS) machines and Sound 
Boxes lying with customers is considered 
on the basis of the ‘active user status’ of 
the customers which is tracked from the 
Company’s IT systems.
 
(c) The title deeds of all the immovable 
properties, as disclosed in Note 3(b) to 
the Standalone Financial Statements, are 
held in the name of the Company.
 
(d) The Company has chosen cost model 
for its Property, Plant and Equipment 
(including Right-of-Use assets) and 
Intangible Assets. Consequently, the 
question of our commenting on whether 
the revaluation is based on the valuation 
by a Registered Valuer, or specifying the 
amount of change, if the change is 10% or 
more in the aggregate of the net carrying 
value of each class of Property, Plant and 
Equipment (including Right-of-Use assets) 
or Intangible Assets does not arise.
 
(e) Based on the information and explanations 
furnished to us, no proceedings have 
been initiated on or are pending against 
the Company for holding benami property 
under the Prohibition of Benami Property 
Transactions Act, 1988 (as amended in 
2016) (formerly the Benami Transactions 
(Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988)) and 
Rules made thereunder, and therefore the 
question of our commenting on whether the 
Company has appropriately disclosed the 
details in its Standalone Financial Statements 
does not arise.
ii. (a) The Company is in the business of 
rendering services, and consequently, 
does not hold any inventory. Therefore, 
the provisions of Clause 3(ii)(a) of the 
Order are not applicable to the Company.
 
(b) During the year, the Company has not been 
sanctioned working capital limits in excess 
of Rs. 5 crores, in aggregate from banks and 
financial institutions and accordingly, the 
question of our commenting on whether 
the quarterly returns or statements are in 
agreement with the unaudited books of 
account of the Company does not arise.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 212
Annual Report 
2023
189
Financial Statements
iii. (a) The Company has made investments by way of subscribing to optionally convertible debentures 
in 3 companies and in treasury bills, government securities, certificate of deposits and 
commercial papers. The Company has not granted secured/ unsecured loans/advances in 
nature of loans, or stood guarantee, or provided security to any parties during the year.
 
(b) In respect of the aforesaid investments, the terms and conditions under which such investments 
were made are not prejudicial to the Company’s interest.
 
(c) In respect of the loans granted in previous years, the schedule of repayment of principal and 
payment of interest has been stipulated by the Company. Except for the following instances, 
the parties are repaying the principal amounts, as stipulated, and are also regular in payment 
of interest as applicable.
Name of the entity
Amount (including 
accrued interest) 
(INR million)
Due Date
Extent of 
delay
Remarks 
(if any)
Little Internet Private 
Limited
80
Refer Note 1 
below 
Refer Note 1 
below
Refer Note 1 
below
Arthimpact Finserve 
Private Limited 
234
Refer Note 2 
below
Refer Note 2 
below
Refer Note 2 
below
Urja Money Private 
Limited 
11
Refer Note 3 
below
Refer Note 3 
below
Refer Note 3 
below
Robust Infocom Private 
Limited
191
Refer Note 4 
below
Refer Note 4 
below
Refer Note 4 
below
Rooter Sports 
Technologies Private 
Limited
47
Refer Note 5 
below
Refer Note 5 
below
Refer Note 5 
below
 
 
Note 1: The Company had given loan to Little 
Internet Private Limited (LIPL), a subsidiary 
company, in December 2019. As per the 
agreement, this was to be repaid in equated 
monthly installments starting from 7th month 
after disbursement date till 24th month from 
the disbursement date i.e. December 30, 
2021. The Company has extended the loan 
of INR 70 Mn to December 29, 2024 through 
addendum dated November 3, 2022.
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report
 
 
Note 2: The Company had given loan of 
INR 330 million on March 25, 2021 with 
repayment date on June 30, 2021. The 
Company entered into an addendum 
no. 1 dated August 11, 2021, w.e.f July 
1, 2021 to extend loan of INR 260 million 
to September 30, 2021. The Company 
further entered into an addendum no. 2 
dated December 1, 2021, w.e.f October 1, 
2021 to extend loan of INR 234 million to 
December 31, 2021. 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 213
Annual Report 
2023
190
Financial Statements
Name of the parties
Aggregate amount dues 
renewed or extended or 
settled by fresh loans
(INR million)
Percentage of the aggregate 
to the total loans or advances 
in the nature of loans granted 
during the year
Urja Money Private Limited
11
Not applicable as no loans or 
advances in the nature of loans 
granted during the year 
Little Internet Private Limited
80
Rooter Sports Technologies 
Private Limited
47
 
 
Note 3: The Company had given loan of INR 
10 million to Urja Money Private Limited, 
a subsidiary company in February 2021 
which was to be repaid in one year from 
the disbursement date. The Company has 
entered into an addendum dated April 
13, 2022 effective February 10, 2022. 
As per the addendum, term of loan has 
been extended to four years from the 
disbursement date.
 
 
Note 4: The Company had given loan in 
financial year 2018-19 which was repayable 
No. of cases
Principal Amount 
Overdue (INR 
million)
Interest 
Overdue
(INR million)
Total Overdue
(INR million)
Remarks 
(if any)
2
425
-
425
 
(e) Following loans which had fallen due during the year were extended. Further, no fresh loans 
were granted to same parties to settle the existing overdue loans/advances in nature of loan.
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report
on demand while the interest was payable 
on a quarterly basis. The Company has 
demanded the principal repayment from 
the party in FY 2020-21. 
 
 
Note 5: The Company had given loan of INR 
40 million in FY 2021-22 for a period of 18 
months. The Company has entered into an 
addendum dated March 24, 2023 effective 
December 28, 2022. As per the addendum, 
term of loan has been extended to 30 
months from the disbursement date.
 
(d) In respect of the following loans, the total amount overdue for more than ninety days as at 
March 31, 2023 is INR 425 million. In such instances, in our opinion, reasonable steps have 
been taken by the Company for the recovery of the principal amounts and interest thereon.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 214
Annual Report 
2023
191
Financial Statements
 
(f) No loans were granted during the year 
to related parties u/s 2(76) which are 
repayable on demand or where no 
schedule for repayment of principal and 
payment of interest has been stipulated 
by the Company.  
iv. In our opinion, and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, the Company 
has complied with the provisions of Section 
185 and 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 in 
respect of the loans and investments made, 
and guarantees and security provided by it, 
as applicable. 
v. The Company has not accepted any deposits 
or amounts which are deemed to be deposits 
referred in Sections 73, 74, 75 and 76 of the 
Act and the Rules framed there under to the 
extent notified.
vi. The Central Government of India has not 
specified the maintenance of cost records 
under sub-section (1) of Section 148 of the 
Act for any of the products of the Company.
vii. (a) According to the information and 
explanations given to us and the records 
of the Company examined by us, in our 
opinion, undisputed statutory dues 
including professional tax, labour welfare 
fund have not generally been regularly 
deposited with the appropriate authorities 
though the delays in deposit have not been 
serious. The Company is generally regular 
in depositing undisputed statutory dues in 
respect of provident fund and employees’ 
state insurance, though there has been a 
slight delay in a few cases and the Company 
is regular in depositing undisputed statutory 
dues, including, income tax, goods and 
services tax and other material statutory 
dues, as applicable, with the appropriate 
authorities. Also refer note 28 (c)(ii) to the 
Standalone Financial Statements regarding 
management's assessment on certain 
matters relating to provident fund. 
 
(b) According to the information and 
explanations given to us and the records 
of the Company examined by us, there 
are no statutory dues of provident fund, 
employees’ state insurance, professional 
tax and labour welfare fund which have not 
been deposited on account of any dispute. 
The particulars of goods and services tax, 
income tax, duty of customs and entry 
tax as at March 31, 2023, which have not 
been deposited on account of a dispute, 
are as follows:
Name of the 
Statute
Nature of Dues
Amount 
(INR million)
Period to 
which the 
amount relates
Forum where the 
dispute is pending
Goods and service 
tax Act
GST demand
10,814.70
April 2020 to 
September 
2020
Hon’ble High court of 
Allahabad 
Income Tax Act, 
1961
Non-deduction of tax 
deducted at source
3.62
AY 2013-14 
Commissioner of 
Income-tax (Appeals) 
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 215
Annual Report 
2023
192
Financial Statements
Name of the 
Statute
Nature of Dues
Amount 
(INR million)
Period to 
which the 
amount relates
Forum where the 
dispute is pending
Income Tax Act, 
1961
Non-deduction of tax 
deducted at source
12.50
AY 2014-15
Commissioner of 
Income-tax (Appeals) 
Income Tax Act, 
1961
Non-deduction of tax 
deducted at source
0.01
AY 2017-18
Commissioner of 
Income-tax (Appeals)
Income Tax Act, 
1961
Non-deduction of tax 
deducted at source
3.16
AY 2019-20
Deputy Commissioner 
of Income-tax 
(Appeals)
Income Tax Act, 
1961
Interest allowable on 
TDS refund
17.63
AY 2016-17 and 
2017-18
The Assistant 
Commissioner of 
Income-tax (Appeals)
Income Tax Act, 
1961
Non-deduction of tax 
deducted at source
69.1
AY 2015-16
Commissioner of 
Income-tax (Appeals)
Goods and service 
tax Act
Tran-1 transition
725.80
2016-17
The Joint 
Commissioner CGST, 
Commissionerate, 
Noida
The Customs Act, 
1962
Custom duty on 
Sound box
32.92*
August 5, 2019 
to July 6, 2021
Hon’ble Customs, 
Excise and Service 
Tax Appellate Tribunal
The Gujarat Tax on 
Entry of Specified 
Goods into Local 
Area Act, 2001
Entry Tax
17.21**
April 2016 to 
December 
2016
Hon’ble Gujarat Value 
Added Tax Tribual, 
Ahmedabad
Income Tax Act, 
1961
Reassessment 
proceedings
624.9
AY 2013-14 to 
AY 2017-18
Hon'ble Delhi High 
Court.
Goods and service 
tax Act
Wrong availment of 
ITC of IGST
2.04
August 2020 
to September 
2020
The Joint 
Commissioner 
Corporate Circle
 
 
*excluding INR 2.4 million paid under protest by the Company.
 
 
**excluding INR 0.6 million paid under protest by the Company. 
viii. According to the information and explanations 
given to us and the records of the Company 
examined by us, there are no transactions 
in the books of account that has been 
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report
surrendered or disclosed as income during the 
year in the tax assessments under the Income 
Tax Act, 1961, that has not been recorded in 
the books of account.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 216
Annual Report 
2023
193
Financial Statements
ix. (a) As the Company did not have any loans or 
other borrowings from any lender during 
the year, the reporting under clause 3(ix)
(a) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company.
 
(b) According to the information and 
explanations given to us and on the 
basis of our audit procedures, we 
report that the Company has not been 
declared Wilful Defaulter by any bank or 
financial institution or government or any 
government authority.
 
(c) According to the records of the Company 
examined by us and the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company 
has not obtained any term loans.
 
(d) According to the information and 
explanations given to us, and the 
procedures performed by us, and on 
an overall examination of the financial 
statements of the Company, the Company 
has not raised funds on short term basis.
 
(e) According to the information and 
explanations given to us and on an overall 
examination of the financial statements of 
the Company, we report that the Company 
has not taken any funds from any entity 
or person on account of or to meet the 
obligations of its subsidiaries, associates 
or joint ventures.
 
(f) According to the information and 
explanations given to us and procedures 
performed by us, we report that the 
Company has not raised loans during the 
year on the pledge of securities held in its 
subsidiaries, joint ventures or associate 
companies.
x. (a) In our opinion and according to information 
and explanations given by the management 
and audit procedures performed by us, 
monies raised by the Company by way 
of initial public offer were applied for the 
purpose for which they were raised. The 
amount of unutilized proceeds as at March 
31, 2023 amounted to INR 41,007 million. 
Also, refer Note 39 of the Standalone 
Financial Statements of the Company.   
 
(b) The Company has not made any preferential 
allotment or private placement of shares or 
fully or partially or optionally convertible 
debentures during the year. Accordingly, 
the reporting under Clause 3(x)(b) of the 
Order are not applicable to the Company.
xi. (a) During the course of our examination of 
the books and records of the Company, 
carried out in accordance with the 
generally accepted auditing practices in 
India, and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, we have 
neither come across any instance of 
material fraud by the Company or on the 
Company, noticed or reported during the 
year, nor have we been informed of any 
such case by the Management.
xi. (b) During the course of our examination of 
the books and records of the Company, 
carried out in accordance with the 
generally accepted auditing practices in 
India, and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, a report 
under Section 143(12) of the Act, in Form 
ADT-4, as prescribed under rule 13 of 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 was not required to be filed with 
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 217
Annual Report 
2023
194
Financial Statements
the Central Government. Accordingly, the 
reporting under clause 3(xi)(b) of the Order 
is not applicable to the Company.
xi. (c) During the course of our examination of 
the books and records of the Company 
carried out in accordance with the 
generally accepted auditing practices in 
India, and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has 
received whistle-blower complaints during 
the year, which have been considered 
by us for any bearing on our audit and 
reporting under this clause. In respect of 
certain complaints, for which preliminary 
findings of the investigations have been 
provided to us by management, our 
consideration of the complaints having 
any bearing on our audit is limited to such 
preliminary findings. 
xii. The Company is not a Nidhi Company and 
the Nidhi Rules, 2014 are not applicable to it. 
Accordingly, the reporting under clause 3(xii) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
xiii. The Company has entered into transactions 
with related parties in compliance with the 
provisions of Sections 177 and 188 of the Act. 
The details of such related party transactions 
have been disclosed in the Standalone 
Financial Statements as required under Indian 
Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 24, Related 
Party Disclosures specified under Section 
133 of the Act.
xiv. (a) In our opinion and according to the 
information and explanation given to us, 
the Company has an internal audit system 
commensurate with the size and nature of 
its business.
xiv. (b) The reports of the Internal Auditor for the 
period under audit have been considered 
by us.
xv. The Company has not entered into any non-
cash transactions with its directors or persons 
connected with him. Accordingly, the reporting 
on compliance with the provisions of Section 
192 of the Act under clause 3(xv) of the Order 
is not applicable to the Company.
xvi. (a) The Company is not required to be 
registered under Section 45-IA of 
the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. 
Accordingly, the reporting under clause 
3(xvi)(a) of the Order is not applicable to 
the Company.
 
(b) The Company has not conducted non-
banking financial or housing finance 
activities during the year. Accordingly, 
the reporting under Clause 3(xvi)(b) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
 
(c) The Company is not a Core Investment 
Company (CIC) as defined in the 
regulations made by the Reserve Bank 
of India. Accordingly, the reporting 
under Clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
 
(d) Based on the information and explanations 
provided by the management of the 
Company, the Group does not have any 
CICs, which are part of the Group. We 
have not, however, separately evaluated 
whether the information provided by the 
management is accurate and complete. 
Accordingly, the reporting under Clause 
3(xvi)(d) of the Order is not applicable to 
the Company.
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 218
Annual Report 
2023
195
Financial Statements
xvii. The Company has not incurred any cash 
losses in the financial year and had incurred 
cash losses of Rs. 12,500 million in the 
immediately preceding financial year. 
xviii. There has been no resignation of the statutory 
auditors during the year and accordingly the 
reporting under Clause (xviii) is not applicable.
xix. According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of the financial 
ratios (Also refer Note 41(iv) to the Standalone 
Financial Statements), ageing and expected 
dates of realisation of financial assets 
and payment of financial liabilities, other 
information accompanying the financial 
statements, our knowledge of the Board of 
Directors and management plans and based 
on our examination of the evidence supporting 
the assumptions, nothing has come to our 
attention, which causes us to believe that any 
material uncertainty exists as on the date of 
the audit report that Company is not capable 
of meeting its liabilities existing at the date 
of balance sheet as and when they fall due 
within a period of one year from the balance 
sheet date. We, however, state that this is 
not an assurance as to the future viability 
of the Company. We further state that our 
reporting is based on the facts up to the date 
of the audit report and we neither give any 
guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities 
falling due within a period of one year from 
the balance sheet date will get discharged 
by the Company as and when they fall due.
xx. The provisions relating to Corporate Social 
Responsibility under Section 135 of the Act are 
not applicable to the Company. Accordingly, 
reporting under clause 3(xx) of the Order is 
not applicable to the Company.
xxi. The reporting under Clause 3(xxi) of the 
Order is not applicable in respect of audit of 
Standalone Financial Statements. Accordingly, 
no comment in respect of the said clause has 
been included in this report.
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report
 
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
 
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
	
Amitesh Dutta
 
Partner
Place: Gurugram 
Membership Number: 058507
Date: May 5, 2023 
UDIN: 23058507BGYAXW2657

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 219
Annual Report 
2023
196
Financial Statements
Standalone Balance Sheet (Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Notes
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
3(a)
 8,138 
 5,431 
Right-of-use-assets
3(b)
 2,795 
 2,786 
Capital work-in-progress
3(c)
 71 
 97 
Intangible assets
4
 438 
 83 
Intangible assets under development
3(d)
 4 
 15 
Financial assets
 
Investment in subsidiaries
5
 10,776 
 10,695 
 
Investment in associates
6
 2,081 
 1,932 
 
Other investments
 7(b)
 1,582 
 426 
 
Loans
7(c)
 1,536 
 1,681 
 
Other financial assets
7(d)
 2,243 
 41,778 
Current tax assets
 5,325 
 3,838 
Other non-current assets 
9
 3,198 
 3,031 
Total Non-Current Assets
 38,187 
 71,793 
Current assets
Financial assets
 
Other investments
7(a)
 10,495 
 - 
 
Trade receivables 
8
 11,421 
 7,059 
 
Cash and cash equivalents
10(a)
 30,029 
 10,664 
 
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
10(b)
 33,092 
 37,690 
 
Loans
7(c)
 370 
 514 
 
Other financial assets
7(d)
 22,522 
 22,339 
Other current assets 
9
 10,248 
 13,507 
Total Current Assets
 118,177 
 91,773 
TOTAL ASSETS
 156,364 
 163,566 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
Equity share capital
11(a)
 634 
 649 
Other equity
11(b)
 122,233 
 136,476 
Total Equity
 122,867 
 137,125 
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
 
Lease liabilities
3(b)
 1,799 
 1,724 
Contract liabilities
14(b)
 2,367 
 3,165 
Provisions
12
 533 
 235 
Total Non-Current Liabilities
 4,699 
 5,124 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
 
Lease liabilities
3(b)
 267 
 318 
 
Trade payables
 
 
(a) Total Outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises 
13(a)
 397 
 193 
 
 
(b) Total Outstanding dues other than (a) above 
13(a)
 7,437 
 6,914 
 
Other financial liabilities
13(b)
 13,525 
 7,308 
Contract liabilities
14(b) 
 2,353 
 2,001 
Other current liabilities 
14(a) 
 3,426 
 3,865 
Provisions
12
 1,393 
 718 
Total Current Liabilities
 28,798 
 21,317 
Total Liabilities
 33,497 
 26,441 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
 156,364 
 163,566 
The above Standalone Balance Sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Standalone Balance Sheet referred to in our report of even date.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP 
Firm registration number: 012754N/ N500016
Amitesh Dutta | Partner 
Membership No: 058507 
Place: Gurugram | Date: May 5, 2023
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of One 97 Communications Limited
Vijay Shekhar Sharma | Chairman, 
Madhur Deora | Executive Director, 
Managing Director and CEO 
President & Group Chief Financial Officer 
DIN No. 00466521 
DIN No. 07720350 
Place: New Delhi | Date: May 5, 2023 
Place: Mumbai | Date: May 5, 2023
Standalone Balance Sheet

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 220
Annual Report 
2023
197
Financial Statements
Particulars
Notes
For the year ended  
March 31, 2023
For the year ended  
March 31, 2022
Income
Revenue from operations
 15 
 60,277 
 38,924 
Other income 
 16 
 3,994 
 2,830 
Total income
 64,271 
 41,754 
Expenses
Payment processing charges
 17,140 
 19,855 
Marketing and promotional expenses
 9,516 
 7,907 
Employee benefits expense
 17 
 32,584 
 19,072 
Software, cloud and data centre expenses
 6,545 
 4,516 
Depreciation and amortization expense
 18 
 4,696 
 2,282 
Finance costs
 19 
 219 
 381 
Other expenses 
 20 
 11,499 
 10,548 
Total expenses
 82,199 
 64,561 
Loss before exceptional items and tax
 (17,928)
 (22,807)
Exceptional items
 21 
 (630)
 (441)
Loss before tax
 (18,558)
 (23,248)
Income Tax expense
Current tax
 27 
 - 
 3 
Total Tax expense
 - 
 3 
Loss for the year
 (18,558)
 (23,251)
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent 
years
 
Re-measurement gains/ (losses) on defined benefit plans
 26 
 (23)
 (18)
Total Other Comprehensive Income/ (Loss) for the year
 (23)
 (18)
Total Comprehensive Income/ (Loss) for the year
 (18,581)
 (23,269)
Earnings per share (INR per share of INR 1 each)
Basic
 22 
 (29)
 (37)
Diluted
 22 
 (29)
 (37)
For Price Waterhouse Chartered 
Accountants LLP 
Firm registration number: 
012754N/ N500016
Amitesh Dutta | Partner 
Membership No: 058507 
Place: Gurugram | Date: May 5, 2023
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of One 97 Communications Limited
Vijay Shekhar Sharma | Chairman, 
Madhur Deora | Executive Director, 
Managing Director and CEO 
President & Group Chief Financial Officer 
DIN No. 00466521 
DIN No. 07720350 
Place: New Delhi | Date: May 5, 2023 Place: Mumbai | Date: May 5, 2023
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss (Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
The above Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss referred to in our report of even date.
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 221
Annual Report 
2023
198
Financial Statements
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity (Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
a) Equity Share Capital
Equity shares - issued, subscribed and fully paid
No. of Shares
Amount
At April 1, 2021#
 60,260,013 
 605 
Shares issued during the year##
 38,646,058 
 39 
Shares issued during the year - ESOP
 4,627,616 
 5 
Adjustment for Sub-Division of Equity Shares**
 543,217,887 
 - 
Impact of derecognition of trust
 1,809,840 
 - 
At March 31, 2022
 648,561,414 
 649 
Shares issued during the year - ESOP
 793,549 
 1 
Shares buy-back (Refer note 40)
 (15,566,746)
 (16)
At March 31, 2023
 633,788,217 
 634 
# Net of treasury shares, April 1, 2021: 222,391 of face value of INR 10 each, at nil cost through Paytm 
Associate Benefit Welfare Trust (formerly known as One97 Employee Welfare Trust)
## Shares issued during the year ended March 31, 2022 includes 41,407 shares of face value of INR 
10 each issued out of treasury shares 
**Pursuant to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the the Company 
held on June 30, 2021, each equity share of face value of INR 10 per share was sub-divided into 
ten equity shares of face value of INR 1 per share, with effect from record date, i.e., June 30, 2021.
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 222
Annual Report 
2023
199
Financial Statements
b) Other Equity
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity (Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended March 31, 2023
Particulars
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Reserves and Surplus
Other 
reserves 
Total 
Other  
Equity
Securities 
Premium
Retained 
earnings
ESOP 
Reserve
Capital 
Redemption 
Reserve
FVTOCI 
As at April 1, 2021
 2 
 189,256 
 (123,814)
 3,822 
 - 
 (26)
 69,240 
Loss for the year
 - 
 - 
 (23,251)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (23,251)
Other Comprehensive 
income 
 - 
 - 
 (18)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (18)
Total comprehensive 
income/ (loss)
 - 
 - 
 (23,269)
 - 
 - 
 - 
(23,269)
Exercise of share options
 (2)
 2 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Adjustment on forfeiture of 
ESOP
 - 
 - 
 17 
 (17)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Adjustment on cancellation 
of ESOP
 - 
 - 
 102 
 (102)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Amount transferred to 
security premium on 
exercise of ESOPs
 - 
 2,290 
 - 
 (2,290)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Share based payment 
expenses (Refer note 24)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7,498 
 - 
 - 
 7,498 
Share based payment for 
employees of subsidiaries 
and associates (Refer note 
24)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 674 
 - 
 - 
 674 
Share application money 
received (pending 
allotment)
 * 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 * 
Amount received on issue 
of shares
 - 
 83,023 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 83,023 
Amount utilised for share 
issue expenses
 - 
 (1,401)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,401)
Other adjustments (Refer 
note 11(b))
 - 
 - 
 711 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 711 
As at March 31, 2022
 * 
 273,170 
(146,253)
 9,585 
 - 
 (26)
136,476 
Loss for the period
 - 
 - 
 (18,558)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (18,558)
Other Comprehensive 
income 
 - 
 - 
 (23)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (23)
Total comprehensive 
income/ (loss)
 - 
 - 
 (18,581)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (18,581)
Exercise of share options
 * 
 * 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Adjustment on forfeiture of 
ESOP
 - 
 - 
 3 
 (3)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Adjustment on cancellation 
of ESOP
 - 
 - 
 12 
 (12)
 - 
 - 
 - 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 223
Annual Report 
2023
200
Financial Statements
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity (Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
The above Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the 
accompanying notes.
This is the Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity referred to in our report of even date.
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended March 31, 2023
Particulars
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Reserves and Surplus
Other 
reserves 
Total 
Other  
Equity
Securities 
Premium
Retained 
earnings
ESOP 
Reserve
Capital 
Redemption 
Reserve
FVTOCI 
Amount transferred to 
securities premium on 
exercise of ESOPs
 - 
 919 
 - 
 (919)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Share based payment 
expenses (Refer note 24)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 13,799 
 - 
 - 
 13,799 
Share based payment for 
employees of subsidiaries 
and associates (Refer note 
24)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,081 
 - 
 - 
 1,081 
Share application money 
received (pending 
allotment)
 1 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1 
Amount received on issue 
of shares
 - 
 6 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6 
Buy-back of equity shares 
(including transaction cost) 
(Refer note 40)
 - 
 (8,568)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (8,568)
Transfer on account of 
buy-back of equity shares 
(Refer note 40)
 - 
 (16)
 - 
 - 
 16 
 - 
 - 
Tax on buy-back of equity 
shares (Refer note 40)
 - 
 (1,977)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,977)
Other adjustments (Refer 
note 11(b))
 - 
 - 
 (46)
 - 
 - 
 42 
 (4)
As at March 31, 2023
 1 
 263,534 
(164,865)
 23,531 
 16 
 16 
122,233 
For Price Waterhouse Chartered 
Accountants LLP 
Firm registration number: 
012754N/ N500016
Amitesh Dutta | Partner 
Membership No: 058507 
Place: Gurugram | Date: May 5, 2023
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of One 97 Communications Limited
Vijay Shekhar Sharma | Chairman, 
Madhur Deora | Executive Director, 
Managing Director and CEO 
President & Group Chief Financial Officer 
DIN No. 00466521 
DIN No. 07720350 
Place: New Delhi | Date: May 5, 2023 Place: Mumbai | Date: May 5, 2023
b) Other Equity (Contd..)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 224
Annual Report 
2023
201
Financial Statements
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows (Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Notes
For the year ended
March 31, 2023
For the year ended
March 31, 2022
Cash flow from operating activities:
Loss before tax
 (18,558)
 (23,248)
 
Depreciation and amortization expense
18
 4,696 
 2,282 
 
Interest income
16
 (2,582)
 (2,388)
 
Interest Income on unwinding of discount - financial assets 
measured at amortized cost
16
 (582)
 (182)
 
Interest on borrowing at amortized cost
19
 - 
 293 
 
Interest and finance charges on lease liabilities
19
 185 
 75 
 
Gain on leases termination
 (1)
 (3)
 
Trade receivables/ advance written off
20
 84 
 201 
 
Provision for advances
20
 125 
 40 
 
Loss allowance for financial assets
20
 795 
 697 
 
Provision for impairment of investments in associates and 
subsidiaries
21
 630 
 441 
 
Liabilities no longer required written back
16
 (85)
 (7)
 
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets written 
off 
20
 12 
 10 
 
Share based payment expenses
17
 13,799 
 7,498 
 
Provision for employee incentive
 (4)
 15 
 
Fair value gain on financial instruments measured at FVTPL 
(net)
16
 (532)
 (223)
 
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (net)
16
 (130)
 (7)
Operating loss before working capital changes
 (2,148)
 (14,506)
Working capital adjustments:
 
Increase/(decrease) in trade payables
 735 
 977 
 
Increase/(decrease) in provisions
 950 
 379 
 
Increase /(decrease) in other current liabilities and contract 
liabilities
 (885)
 860 
 
Increase/(decrease) in other financial liabilities
 6,055 
 8,236 
 
(Increase)/decrease in trade receivables
 (4,772)
 (2,805)
 
(Increase)/decrease in other financial assets
 (299)
 (5,707)
 
(Increase)/decrease in other current and non-current assets
 2,767 
 373 
Cash generated from/ (used in) operations
 2,403 
 (12,193)
Tax paid, net of refunds
 (1,487)
 (987)
Net cash inflow/ (outflow) from operating activities (A)
 916 
 (13,180)
Cash flow from investing activities:
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 (6,968)
 (5,043)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 
 189 
 13 
Proceeds from sale of online payment aggregator business
 568 
 - 
Investment in fixed and other deposits with bank
 (54,056)
 (93,951)
Maturity of bank deposits
 97,353 
 42,339 
Proceeds from repayment of inter corporate loans
 483 
 117 
Inter corporate loans given
 - 
 (1,972)
Proceeds from sale of non-current investments
 - 
 13 
Payment for purchase of non-current investments
 (1,226)
 (421)
Proceeds from sale of current investments
 332,377 
 85,696 
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 225
Annual Report 
2023
202
Financial Statements
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows (Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Notes
For the year ended
March 31, 2023
For the year ended
March 31, 2022
Payment for purchase of current investments
 (342,165)
 (84,204)
Interest received
 2,904 
 2,694 
Net cash inflow/ (outflow) from investing activities (B)
 29,459 
 (54,719)
Cash flow from financing activities:
Proceeds from issue of shares (including securities premium)
 7 
 83,067 
Share issue expenses
 - 
 (1,401)
Buy-back of equity shares (including transaction cost)
 (8,584)
 - 
Tax on buy-back of equity shares
 (1,977)
 - 
Share application money received during the year (pending 
allotment)
 1 
 * 
Net change in working capital demand loan 
 - 
 (435)
Received on recharge of ESOP cost to subsidiaries and 
associates
 97 
 - 
Interest paid
 (185)
 (368)
Principal elements of lease payments
 (369)
 (239)
Net cash inflow/ (outflow) from financing activities (C )
 (11,010)
 80,624 
Net increase/ (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
 19,365 
 12,725 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 10,664 
 (2,061)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
 30,029 
 10,664 
Cash and cash equivalents as per above comprises of following 
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Cash on hand  
 * 
 * 
Balance with banks 
- 
On current accounts 
 25,909 
 10,664 
- 
Deposits with original maturity of less than 3 months 
 4,120 
 - 
Cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of statement of 
cash flows 
10(a)
 30,029 
 10,664 
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
For non-cash additions and deletions in Right-of-use-assets and financing activities, refer note 3(b).
The above Standalone Statement of Cash Flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying 
notes. 
This is the Standalone Statement of Cash Flows referred to in our report of even date.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP 
Firm registration number: 012754N/ N500016
Amitesh Dutta | Partner 
Membership No: 058507 
Place: Gurugram | Date: May 5, 2023
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of One 97 Communications Limited
Vijay Shekhar Sharma | Chairman, 
Madhur Deora | Executive Director, 
Managing Director and CEO 
President & Group Chief Financial Officer 
DIN No. 00466521 
DIN No. 07720350 
Place: New Delhi | Date: May 5, 2023 
Place: Mumbai | Date: May 5, 2023
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 226
Annual Report 
2023
203
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
1.	 Corporate information
 
One 97 Communications Limited (“the 
Company”) is a public company domiciled in 
India and is incorporated under the provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”). The 
registered office of the Company is located 
at 1st Floor, Devika Tower, Nehru Place, New 
Delhi - 110019. The principal place of business 
of the Company is in India. The equity shares 
of the Company are listed on the National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”) and 
the BSE Limited (“BSE”) in India.
 
The Company is in the business of providing 
a) payment and financial services which 
primarily includes payment facilitator services, 
facilitation of consumer and merchant lending to 
consumers and merchants, wealth management 
etc. b) commerce and cloud services which 
primarily consists of aggregator for digital 
products, ticketing business, providing voice 
and messaging platforms to the telecom 
operators and enterprise customers and other 
businesses, etc.
 
These Standalone Financial Statements 
(“Financial Statements”) were authorised for 
issue in accordance with a resolution of the 
Board of Directors on May 5, 2023.
2.	Significant accounting policies
2.1 Basis of preparation
 
These Financial Statements of the Company 
have been prepared in accordance with Indian 
Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’) prescribed 
under Section 133 of the Act read with the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015 and other relevant provisions of 
the Act as amended from time to time.
 
The financial statements have been prepared 
on a historical cost basis, except for certain 
financial assets and liabilities measured at fair 
value (refer accounting policies on financial 
instruments and Share-based payments).
 
Accounting policies have been consistently 
applied except where a newly issued 
accounting standard is initially adopted or a 
revision to an existing accounting standard 
requires a change in the accounting policy 
hitherto in use.
 
The Code on Social Security, 2020 (‘Code’) 
relating to employee benefits during 
employment and post employment benefits 
received Presidential assent in September 
2020. The Code has been published in the 
Gazette of India. However, the date on which 
the Code will come into effect has not been 
notified. The Company will assess the impact 
of the Code when it comes into effect and will 
record any related impact in the period the 
Code becomes effective.
 
All the amounts included in the financial 
statements are presented in Indian Rupees 
(‘Rupees’ or ‘Rs.’ or ‘INR’) and are rounded to 
the nearest millions, except per share data 
and unless stated otherwise.
	
Impact of COVID-19
 
The government has removed substantially 
all COVID-19 related restrictions gradually in 
a phased manner and the Company has seen 
improvement in its operations. The Company 
has made an assessment of the recoverability 
and carrying values of its assets as at the end 
of the current year and has concluded that 
there are no material adjustments required 
in the Standalone Financial Statements. 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 227
Annual Report 
2023
204
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Management believes that it has considered 
all the possible impact of known events arising 
from COVID-19 pandemic in the preparation 
of the Standalone Financial Statements.
	
New and amended standards 
adopted by the Company
 
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has vide 
notification dated March 23, 2022 notified 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Amendment Rules, 2022 which amends certain 
accounting standards, and are effective April 
1, 2022. These amendments did not have 
any impact on the amounts recognised in 
prior periods and current period, and are not 
expected to significantly affect the future 
periods.
	
New and amended standards issued 
but not effective
 
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has vide 
notification dated March 31, 2023 notified 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Amendment Rules, 2023 (the ‘Rules’) which 
amends certain accounting standards, and 
are effective April 1, 2023.
 
The Rules predominantly amend Ind AS 12, 
Income taxes, and Ind AS 1, Presentation of 
financial statements. The other amendments 
to Ind AS notified by these rules are primarily 
in the nature of clarifications.
 
The amendments clarify how companies 
account for deferred tax on transactions 
such as leases and decommissioning 
obligations. The amendments narrowed the 
scope of the recognition exemption so that 
it no longer applies to transactions that, on 
initial recognition, give rise to equal taxable 
and deductible temporary differences. The 
Company is evaluating the impact, if any, in 
its financial statements.
2.2 Summary of significant accounting 
policies
	
a.	 Current versus non-current 
classification
 
 
The Company presents assets and liabilities 
in the balance sheet based on current / 
non-current classification. 
 
 
An asset is classified as current when it 
is expected to be realised or intended to 
be sold or consumed in normal operating 
cycle, held primarily for the purpose of 
trading, expected to be realised within 
twelve months after the reporting period, 
or cash or cash equivalent unless restricted 
from being exchanged or used to settle 
a liability for at least twelve months after 
the reporting period. All other assets are 
classified as non-current.
 
 
A liability is classified as current when it is 
expected to be settled in normal operating 
cycle, it is held primarily for the purpose 
of trading, it is due to be settled within 
twelve months after the reporting period, 
or there is no unconditional right to defer 
the settlement of the liability for at least 
twelve months after the reporting period. 
The Company classifies all other liabilities 
as non-current.
 
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities, are 
classified as non-current assets and 
liabilities.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 228
Annual Report 
2023
205
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
 
The operating cycle is the time between 
the acquisition of assets for processing 
and their realisation in cash and cash 
equivalents. The Company has identified 
twelve months as its operating cycle.
	
b.	 Foreign currencies
 
 
Functional and presentation currency
 
 
Items included in the financial statements 
of the Company are measured using 
the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which it operates i.e. the 
“functional currency”. The Company’s 
financial statements are presented in INR, 
which is also the Company’s functional 
currency. 
 
 
Transactions and balances
 
 
Transactions in foreign currencies are 
initially recorded by the Company’s 
functional currency at exchange rates 
prevailing at the date the transaction first 
qualifies for recognition.
 
 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies are translated at the 
functional currency spot rates of exchange 
at the reporting date. Exchange differences 
arising on settlement or translation of 
monetary items are recognised in profit 
or loss.
 
 
Non-monetary items that are measured 
in terms of historical cost in a foreign 
currency are translated using the exchange 
rates at the dates of the initial transactions. 
 
 
Non-monetary items measured at fair value 
in a foreign currency are translated using 
the exchange rates at the date when the 
fair value is determined. The gain or loss 
arising on translation of non-monetary 
items measured at fair value is treated 
in line with the recognition of the gain 
or loss on the change in fair value of the 
item (i.e., translation differences on items 
whose fair value gain or loss is recognised 
in other comprehensive income (“OCI”) 
or statement of profit and loss, are also 
recognised in OCI or statement of profit 
and loss, respectively).
	
c.	 Fair value measurement
 
 
The Company measures certain financial 
instruments (e.g. investments) at fair value 
at each balance sheet date. 
 
 
Fair value is the price that would be received 
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability 
in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date. 
 
 
The fair value measurement is based on 
the presumption that the transaction to 
sell the asset or transfer the liabilities takes 
place either in the principal market for the 
asset or liability or in absence of principal 
market, in the most advantageous market 
for the asset or liability.
 
 
A fair value measurement of a non-
financial asset takes into account a market 
participant’s ability to generate economic 
benefits by using the asset in its highest 
and best use or by selling it to another 
market participant that would use the 
asset in its highest and best use.
 
 
The Company uses valuation techniques 
that are appropriate in the circumstances 
and for which sufficient data are available 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 229
Annual Report 
2023
206
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
to measure fair value, maximising the use of 
relevant observable inputs and minimising 
the use of unobservable inputs.
 
 
All assets and liabilities for which fair value 
is measured or disclosed in the financial 
statements are categorised within the 
fair value hierarchy, described as follows, 
based on the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement 
as a whole:
 
 
Level 1- Quoted (Unadjusted) marked 
prices in the active markets for identical 
assets or liabilities
 
 
Level 2- Valuation techniques for which 
the lowest level input that is significant 
to the fair value measurement is directly 
or indirectly observable
 
 
Level 3- Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is significant to the 
fair value measurement is unobservable.
 
 
For assets and liabilities that are recognised 
in the financial statements on a recurring 
basis, the Company determines whether 
transfers have occurred between 
levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing 
categorisation (based on the lowest level 
input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole) at the end of 
each reporting period.
 
 
At each reporting date, the management 
analyses the movements in the values of 
assets and liabilities which are required to 
be re-measured or re-assessed as per the 
Company’s accounting policies. For this 
analysis, the management or its expert 
verifies the major inputs applied in the 
latest valuation by agreeing the information 
in the valuation computation to contracts 
and other relevant documents.
 
 
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, 
the Company has determined classes of 
assets and liabilities on the basis of the 
nature, characteristics and risks of the 
asset or liability and the level of the fair 
value hierarchy as explained above.
	
d.	 Revenue recognition
 
 
Revenue is measured based on the 
consideration specified in a contract with a 
customer (transaction price) net of variable 
consideration e.g. discounts, volume 
rebates, any payments made to a customer 
(unless the payment is for a distinct good 
or service received from the customer) 
and excludes amounts collected on behalf 
of third parties. The Company recognises 
revenue when it transfers control over a 
product or service to a customer. Revenue 
is only recognised to the extent that it is 
highly probable that a significant reversal 
will not occur. 
 
 
The Company provides incentives to its 
users in various forms including cashbacks. 
Incentives which are consideration payable 
to the customer that are not in exchange 
for a distinct good or service are generally 
recognized as a reduction of revenue.
 
 
Where the Company acts as an agent 
for selling goods or services, only the 
commission income is included within 
revenue. The specific revenue recognition 
criteria described below must also be met 
before revenue is recognized. Typically, the 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 230
Annual Report 
2023
207
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Company has a right to payment before 
or at the point that services are delivered. 
Cash received before the services are 
delivered is recognised as a contract 
liability. The amount of consideration 
does not contain a significant financing 
component as payment terms are less 
than one year.
	
	
Sale of services 
 
 
Revenue from services is recognized 
when the control in services is transferred 
as per the terms of the agreement with 
customer i.e. as and when services are 
rendered. Revenues are disclosed net of 
the Goods and Services Tax charged on 
such services. In terms of the contract, 
excess of revenue over the billed at the 
year-end is carried in the balance sheet 
as trade receivables where the amount 
is recoverable from the customer without 
any future performance obligation and the 
Company has unconditional right over such 
consideration (i.e. if only the passage of 
time is required before payment of such 
consideration is due). Cash received before 
the services are delivered is recognised as 
a contract liability.
	
	
Commission
 
 
The Company facilitates recharge of 
talk time, bill payments and availability 
of bus tickets and earns commission for 
the respective services. Commission 
income is recognized when the control in 
services is transferred to the customer 
when the services have been provided 
by the Company.
	
	
Service fees from merchants
 
 
The Company earns service fee from 
merchants and recognizes such revenue 
when the control in services have been 
transferred by the Company i.e. as and 
when services have been provided by the 
Company. Such service fee is generally 
determined as a percentage of transaction 
value executed by the merchants. Amount 
received by the Company pending 
settlement are disclosed as payable to the 
merchants under other financial liabilities.
	
	
Government Grants
 
 
The Company recognises government 
grants only when there is reasonable 
assurance that the conditions attached to 
them will be complied with, and the grants 
will be received. Government grants related 
to revenue are recognized on a systematic 
basis in the Standalone Statement of Profit 
and Loss as other operating revenue over 
the periods necessary to match them with 
the related costs, if any, which they are 
intended to compensate.
	
	
Interest income
 
 
For all debt instruments measured either 
at amortised cost or at fair value through 
other comprehensive income, interest 
income is recorded using the effective 
interest rate (EIR). EIR is the rate that 
exactly discounts the estimated future 
cash payments or receipts over the 
expected life of the financial instrument 
or a shorter period, where appropriate, to 
the gross carrying amount of the financial 
asset or to the amortised cost of a financial 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 231
Annual Report 
2023
208
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
liability. When calculating the effective 
interest rate, the Company estimates 
the expected cash flows by considering 
all the contractual terms of the financial 
instrument but does not consider the 
expected credit losses. Interest income is 
included in other income in the statement 
of profit and loss.
	
e.	 Trade receivable
 
 
Trade receivables are amounts due from 
customers for services performed in the 
ordinary course of business and reflects 
group’s unconditional right to consideration 
(that is, payment is due only on the 
passage of time). Trade receivables are 
recognised initially at the transaction price 
as they do not contain significant financing 
components. The Company holds the trade 
receivables with the objective of collecting 
the contractual cash flows and therefore 
measures them subsequently at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method, 
less loss allowance. 
	
f.	 Taxes
	
	
Current income tax
 
 
Current income tax assets and liabilities 
are measured at the amount expected to 
be recovered from or paid to the taxation 
authorities. The tax rates and tax laws 
used to compute the amount are those that 
are enacted or substantively enacted, at 
the reporting date in the countries where 
the Company operates and generates 
taxable income.
 
 
Current income tax relating to items 
recognised outside statement of profit 
and loss is recognised either in other 
comprehensive income or in equity. Current 
tax items are recognised in correlation to 
the underlying transaction either in OCI or 
directly in equity. Management periodically 
evaluates positions taken in the tax 
returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulations are subject to 
interpretation and considers whether it 
is probable that a taxation authority will 
accept an uncertain tax treatment. The 
Company measures its tax balances either 
based on the most likely amount or the 
expected value, depending on which 
method provides a better prediction of 
the resolution of the uncertainty. 
	
	
Deferred tax
 
 
Deferred tax is provided using the liability 
method on temporary differences between 
the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts for financial 
reporting purposes at the reporting date.
 
 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for 
all taxable temporary differences, except:
 
 
When the deferred tax liability arises from 
the initial recognition of goodwill or an 
asset or liability in a transaction that is 
not a business combination and, at the 
time of the transaction, affects neither the 
accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
 
 
Deferred tax assets are recognised for 
all deductible temporary differences, 
the carry forward of unused tax credits 
and any unused tax losses. Deferred tax 
assets are recognised to the extent that 
it is probable that taxable profit will be 
available against which the deductible 
temporary differences, and the carry 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 232
Annual Report 
2023
209
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
forward of unused tax credits and unused 
tax losses can be utilised. The carrying 
amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed 
at each reporting date and reduced to the 
extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profit will be available to 
allow all or part of the deferred tax asset 
to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax 
assets are re-assessed at each reporting 
date and are recognised to the extent that 
it has become probable that future taxable 
profits will allow the deferred tax asset to 
be recovered.
 
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
measured at the tax rates that are 
expected to apply in the year when the 
asset is realised or the liability is settled, 
based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted at 
the reporting date.
 
 
Deferred tax relating to items recognised 
outside statement of profit and loss is 
recognised either in other comprehensive 
income or in equity. Deferred tax items are 
recognised in correlation to the underlying 
transaction either in OCI or directly in equity.
 
 
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax 
liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable 
right exists to set off current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and the 
deferred taxes relate to the same taxable 
entity and the same taxation authority.
	
	
Taxes paid on acquisition of assets or 
on incurring expenses
 
 
Assets are recognised net of the amount 
of GST paid, except when the tax incurred 
on a purchase of assets is not recoverable 
from the taxation authority, in which case, 
the tax paid is recognised as part of the 
cost of acquisition of the asset.
 
 
Expenses are recognised net of the 
amount of GST paid, except when the tax 
incurred on a purchase of services is not 
recoverable from the taxation authority, in 
which case, the tax paid is expensed off 
in statement of profit and loss.
 
 
The net amount of tax recoverable from, 
or payable to, the taxation authority is 
included as part of other current/ non- 
current assets or other current liabilities 
in the balance sheet.
	
g.	 Non-current assets held for sale 
and discontinued operations
 
 
The Company classifies non-current assets 
and disposal groups as held for sale if 
their carrying amounts will be recovered 
principally through a sale rather than 
through continuing use. Actions required 
to complete the sale should indicate that 
it is unlikely that significant changes to the 
sale will be made or that the decision to 
sell will be withdrawn. Management must 
be committed to the sale expected within 
one year from the date of classification.
 
 
For these purposes, sale transactions include 
exchanges of non-current assets for other 
non-current assets when the exchange 
has commercial substance. The criteria for 
held for sale classification is regarded met 
only when the assets or disposal group is 
available for immediate sale in its present 
condition, subject only to terms that are 
usual and customary for sales of such 
assets (or disposal groups), its sale is highly 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 233
Annual Report 
2023
210
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
probable; and it will genuinely be sold, not 
abandoned. The Company treats sale of the 
asset or disposal group to be highly probable 
when:
 
 
• The appropriate level of management 
is committed to a plan to sell the asset 
(or disposal group),
 
 
• An active programme to locate a 
buyer and complete the plan has been 
initiated (if applicable),
 
 
• The asset (or disposal group) is being 
actively marketed for sale at a price 
that is reasonable in relation to its 
current fair value,
 
 
• The sale is expected to qualify for 
recognition as a completed sale within 
one year from the date of classification 
, and
 
 
• Actions required to complete the plan 
indicate that it is unlikely that significant 
changes to the plan will be made or 
that the plan will be withdrawn.
 
 
Non-current assets held for sale and 
disposal groups are measured at the lower 
of their carrying amount and the fair value 
less costs to sell. Assets and liabilities 
classified as held for sale are presented 
separately in the Balance Sheet. 
 
 
Property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets once classified as held 
for sale are not depreciated or amortised.
 
 
A disposal group qualifies as discontinued 
operation if it is a component of an entity 
that either has been disposed of, or is 
classified as held for sale, and:
 
 
• Represents a separate major line 
of business or geographical area of 
operations or
 
 
• Is part of a single co-ordinated plan 
to dispose of a separate major line 
of business or geographical area of 
operations.
 
 
Discontinued operations are excluded 
from the results of continuing operations 
and are presented as a single amount as 
profit or loss after tax from discontinued 
operations in the statement of profit and 
loss.
	
h.	 Property, plant and equipment
 
 
Property, plant and equipment are carried 
at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and any accumulated impairment, if 
any. Property, plant and equipment is 
depreciated on a written down value basis 
to its residual value over its estimated 
useful life. 
 
 
Costs directly attributable to acquisition 
are capitalized until the property, plant and 
equipment are ready for use, as intended 
by the management.  
 
 
Subsequent costs are capitalised on 
the carrying amount or recognised as a 
separate asset, as appropriate, only when 
future economic benefits associated 
with the item are probable to flow to 
the Company and cost of the item can 
be measured reliably. When significant 
parts of property, plant and equipment 
are required to be replaced at intervals, 
the Company depreciates them separately 
based on their specific useful lives. The 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 234
Annual Report 
2023
211
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
carrying amount of any component 
accounted for as a separate asset is 
derecognised when replaced. All repair and 
maintenance are charged to statement of 
profit and loss during the reporting period 
in which they are incurred.
 
 
Advances paid towards the acquisition of 
property, plant and equipment outstanding 
at each balance sheet date is classified as 
capital advances under the non-current 
assets and the cost of assets not ready to 
use before such date are disclosed under 
‘Capital work in progress’.
 
 
The gain or loss arising on the disposal 
or retirement of an item of property, 
plant and equipment is determined as the 
difference between the sales proceeds and 
the carrying amount of the asset and is 
recognised in the statement of profit and 
loss on the date of disposal or retirement.
 
 
Depreciation is provided using the written 
down value method, except for plant and 
machinery on which straight line method 
is used, based on technical evaluation 
done by the management and charged 
to statement of profit and loss, unless 
such expenditure forms part of carrying 
value of another asset, as per the useful 
life prescribed under schedule II of the 
Companies Act, 2013, given below:
Assets
Useful life
(in years)
Servers and networking 
equipment (Computers)
6
Laptops and desktops 
(Computers)
3
Office equipment
5
Assets
Useful life
(in years)
Furniture and fittings
10
Vehicles
8
Plant & Machinery
- 
EDC/POS machines
3
- 
Soundbox
2
 
 
Leasehold improvements are depreciated 
over the shorter of their useful life or the 
lease term, unless the entity expects to 
use the assets beyond the lease term.
 
 
With effect from April 1, 2022, the Company 
has changed the method of depreciation for 
Plant & Machinery from written down value 
method to straight line method along with 
change in life to 3 years and 2 years for EDC/
POS machines and Soundbox, respectively. 
The impact on account of above change in 
estimate is immaterial for the current and 
future periods.
 
 
The residual values, useful lives and 
methods of depreciation of property, 
plant and equipment are reviewed at 
each financial year end and adjusted 
prospectively, if appropriate.
	
i.	 Intangible assets
 
 
Separately acquired intangible assets, such 
as software are measured initially at cost. 
Following initial recognition, intangible 
assets are carried at cost less accumulated 
amortization and accumulated impairment 
losses, if any. Costs associated with 
maintaining software programmes are 
recognised as an expense as incurred. 
Development costs that are directly 
attributable to the design and testing of 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 235
Annual Report 
2023
212
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
identifiable and unique software products 
controlled by the Company are recognised 
as intangible assets where the following 
criteria are met:
 
 
• it is technically feasible to complete 
the software so that it will be available 
for use or sale
 
 
• management intends to complete the 
software and use or sell it
 
 
• there is an ability to use or sell the 
software
 
 
• it can be demonstrated how the 
software will generate probable future 
economic benefits
 
 
• adequate technical, financial and 
other resources to complete the 
development and to use or sell the 
software are available, and
 
 
• the expenditure attributable to the 
software during its development can 
be reliably measured.
 
 
Directly attributable costs that are 
capitalised as part of the software include 
employee costs.
	
	
Research and development costs
 
 
Research expenditure and development 
expenditure that do not meet the criteria 
above are recognised as an expense as 
incurred. Development costs previously 
recognised as an expense are not recognised 
as an asset in a subsequent period.
	
	
Amortization methods and periods
 
 
Amortization of intangible assets begins 
when development is complete and the 
asset is available for use. Software, licenses 
acquired and internally generated software 
are amortized at the rate of 40% per annum 
on written down value method. During the 
period of development, the asset is tested 
for impairment annually. The amortization 
period and the amortization method are 
reviewed at least at each financial year end. 
Changes in the expected useful life or the 
expected pattern of consumption of future 
economic benefits embodied in the asset 
are considered to modify the amortization 
period or method, as appropriate, and are 
treated as changes in accounting estimates. 
The amortization expense on intangible 
assets is recognized in the statement of 
profit and loss unless such expenditure 
forms part of carrying value of another 
asset.
 
 
Gains or losses arising from de-recognition 
of an intangible asset are measured as 
the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the 
asset and are recognized in the statement 
of profit and loss when the asset is 
derecognized.
	
j.	 Borrowing costs
 
 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to 
the acquisition, construction or production 
of an asset that necessarily takes a 
substantial period of time to get ready 
for its intended use or sale are capitalised 
as part of the cost of the asset. All other 
borrowing costs are expensed in the period 
in the statement of profit and loss in which 
they occur. Borrowing costs consist of 
interest and other costs that an entity 
incurs in connection with the borrowing 
of funds.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 236
Annual Report 
2023
213
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
	
k.	 Impairment of non-financial 
assets
 
 
For all non-financial assets, the Company 
assesses whether there are indicators of 
impairment. If such an indicator exists, 
the recoverable amount of the asset is 
estimated in order to determine the extent 
of the impairment loss, if any. Where the 
asset does not generate cash flows that 
are independent from other assets, the 
Company estimates the recoverable amount 
of the cash-generating unit (CGU) to which 
the asset belongs.
 
 
The recoverable amount for an asset or 
CGU is the higher of its value in use and 
fair value less costs of disposal. If the 
recoverable amount of an asset or CGU 
is estimated to be less than its carrying 
amount, the asset or CGU is considered 
impaired and the carrying amount of the 
asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable 
amount. An impairment loss is recognised 
immediately in the statement of profit and 
loss. 
 
 
In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows of the asset or CGU are 
discounted to their present value using a 
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value 
of money and the risks specific to the 
asset. In determining fair value less costs 
of disposal, recent market transactions are 
taken into account. 
 
 
If no such transactions can be identified, 
an appropriate valuation model is used. 
These calculations are corroborated by 
valuation multiples, quoted share prices 
for publicly traded companies or other 
available fair value indicators.
 
 
The Company bases its impairment 
calculation on detailed budgets and 
forecast calculations. These budgets and 
forecast calculations generally cover a 
period of five years. For longer periods, 
a long-term growth rate is calculated 
and applied to project future cash flows 
after the fifth year. To estimate cash 
flow projections beyond periods covered 
by the most recent budgets/forecasts, 
the Company extrapolates cash flow 
projections in the budget using a steady 
or declining growth rate for subsequent 
years, unless an increasing rate can be 
justified. In any case, this growth rate does 
not exceed the long-term average growth 
rate for the products, industries, or country 
or countries in which the entity operates, 
or for the market in which the asset is 
used.
 
 
An assessment is made at each reporting 
date to determine whether there is an 
indication that previously recognised 
impairment losses no longer exist or 
have decreased. If such indication exists, 
the Company estimates the asset’s or 
CGU’s recoverable amount. A previously 
recognised impairment loss is reversed 
only if there has been a change in the 
assumptions used to determine the asset’s 
or CGU’s recoverable amount since the 
last impairment loss was recognised. The 
reversal is limited so that the carrying 
amount of the asset does not exceed 
its recoverable amount, nor exceed the 
carrying amount that would have been 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 237
Annual Report 
2023
214
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
determined, net of depreciation, had 
no impairment loss been recognised for 
the asset in prior years. Such reversal is 
recognised in the statement of profit or 
loss.
	
l.	 Provisions and contingencies
 
 
Provisions
 
 
Provisions are recognised when the 
Company has a present obligation (legal 
or constructive) as a result of a past 
event, it is probable that an outflow of 
resources embodying economic benefits 
will be required to settle the obligation 
and a reliable estimate can be made of 
the amount of the obligation. 
 
 
When the Company expects some or 
all of a provision to be reimbursed, the 
reimbursement is recognised as a separate 
asset, but only when the reimbursement is 
virtually certain. The expense relating to a 
provision is presented in the statement of 
profit and loss net of any reimbursement.
 
 
If the effect of the time value of money 
is material, provisions are discounted 
using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, 
when appropriate, the risks specific to 
the liability. When discounting is used, 
the increase in the provision due to the 
passage of time is recognised as a finance 
cost.
 
 
Contingencies
 
 
A contingent liability is a possible 
obligation that arises from past events 
whose existence will be confirmed by the 
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or 
more uncertain future events beyond 
the control of the Company or a present 
obligation that is not recognized because it 
is not probable that an outflow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation. A 
contingent liability also arises in extremely 
rare cases where there is a liability that 
cannot be recognized because it cannot 
be measured reliably. The Company does 
not recognize a contingent liability but 
discloses its existence in the financial 
statements.
 m.	 Retirement and other employee 
benefits
 
 
For defined benefit plans (gratuity), 
the liability or asset recognised in the 
balance sheet is the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation at the end of 
the reporting period less the fair value of 
plan assets. The defined benefit obligation 
is calculated by an independent actuary 
using the projected unit credit method. 
 
 
The present value of the defined benefit 
obligation is determined by discounting 
the estimated future cash outflows by 
reference to market yields at the end of 
the reporting period on government bonds 
that have terms approximating to the terms 
of the related obligation.
 
 
The net interest cost is calculated by 
applying the discount rate to the net 
balance of the defined benefit obligation 
and the fair value of plan assets. This cost 
is included in employee benefit expense in 
the statement of profit and loss.
 
 
Re-measurement gains and losses arising 
from experience adjustments and changes 
in actuarial assumptions are recognised 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 238
Annual Report 
2023
215
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
in the period in which they occur, directly 
in other comprehensive income. They 
are included in retained earnings in the 
statement of changes in equity and in 
the balance sheet. Re-measurements 
are not reclassified to profit or loss in the 
subsequent periods.
 
 
Changes in the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation resulting from 
plan amendments or curtailments are 
recognised immediately in profit or loss 
as past service cost.
 
 
The Company’s contributions to defined 
contribution plans (provident fund) are 
recognized in profit or loss when the 
employee renders related service. The 
Company has no further obligations 
under these plans beyond its periodic 
contributions.
 
 
The Company provides for liability at period 
end on account of un-availed earned leave 
and Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) as 
per actuarial valuation using projected unit 
credit method.
 
 
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including 
non-monetary benefits that are expected 
to be settled wholly within 12 months 
after the end of the period in which the 
employees render the related service 
are recognised in respect of employees’ 
services up to the end of the reporting 
period and are measured at the amounts 
expected to be paid when the liabilities 
are settled. The liabilities are presented 
as employee benefit payable under other 
financial liabilities in the balance sheet.
	
n.	 Share-based payments
	
	
i)	 Equity-settled transactions
 
 
 
Employees (including senior executives) 
of the Company receive remuneration 
in the form of share-based payments, 
whereby employees render services 
as consideration for equity instruments 
(equity-settled transactions).
 
 
 
The cost  of equity-settled transactions 
is determined by the fair value at the 
date when the grant is made using an 
appropriate valuation model.
 
 
 
That cost is recognised, together 
with a corresponding increase in 
Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOP) 
reserves in equity, over the period in 
which the performance and/or service 
conditions are fulfilled in employee 
benefits expense. The cumulative 
expense recognised for equity-settled 
transactions at each reporting date 
until the vesting date reflects the extent 
to which the vesting period has expired 
and the Company’s best estimate of 
the number of equity instruments that 
will ultimately vest. The statement of 
profit and loss expense or credit for 
a period represents the movement in 
cumulative expense recognised as at 
the beginning and end of that period 
and is recognised in employee benefits 
expense.
 
 
 
Performance conditions which are 
market conditions are taken into 
account when determining the 
grant date fair value of the awards. 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 239
Annual Report 
2023
216
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Service and non-market performance 
conditions are not taken into account 
when determining the grant date fair 
value of awards, but the likelihood of 
the conditions being met is assessed 
as part of the Company’s best estimate 
of the number of equity instruments 
that will ultimately vest.
 
 
 
No expense is recognised for awards 
that do not ultimately vest because 
non-market performance and/or service 
conditions have not been met.
 
 
 
When the terms of an equity-settled 
award are modified, the minimum 
expense recognised is the expense 
had the terms not been modified, if the 
original terms of the award are met. 
An additional expense is recognised 
for any modification that increases 
the total fair value of the share-based 
payment transaction, or is otherwise 
beneficial to the employee as measured 
at the date of modification. Where an 
award is cancelled by the entity or 
by the counterparty, any remaining 
element of the fair value of the award 
is expensed immediately through profit 
or loss.
 
 
 
The dilutive effect of outstanding 
options is reflected as additional share 
dilution in the computation of diluted 
earnings per share.
	
	
ii)	 Cash-settled transactions
 
 
 
For awards classified as cash settled 
share based transactions, the goods 
or services acquired are measured and 
the liability incurred, at the fair value of 
liability. Until the liability is settled, the 
fair value of the liability is re-measured 
at the end of each reporting period 
and at the date of settlement, with 
any changes in fair value recognised 
in statement of profit and loss for the 
period.
 
 
 
The cost of cash-settled transactions 
is determined by the fair value of equity 
instruments at each reporting date 
using an appropriate valuation model.
 
 
 
That cost is recognised, together with a 
corresponding increase in liability, over 
the period in which the performance 
and/or service conditions are fulfilled 
in employee benefits expense. The 
cumulative expense recognised for 
cash-settled transactions at each 
reporting date until the vesting 
date reflects the extent to which 
the vesting period has expired and 
the Company’s best estimate of the 
number of equity instruments that 
will ultimately vest. The statement of 
profit and loss expense or credit for 
a period represents the movement in 
cumulative expense recognised as at 
the beginning and end of that period 
and is recognised in employee benefits 
expense.
 
 
 
No expense is recognised for awards 
that do not ultimately vest because 
non-market performance and/or 
service conditions have not been met.
 
 
 
The Company has set up Paytm 
Associate Benefit Welfare Trust 
(formerly known as One97 Employee 
Welfare Trust) for administering 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 240
Annual Report 
2023
217
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
certain types of share-based payment 
arrangements including awards given 
to employees of the outside group 
companies as well for awards of 
options of other companies given to 
its employees. The Company uses 
the Trust as a vehicle for distributing 
shares under the ESOP schemes. The 
Trust holds shares of the Company, 
for giving shares to employees. The 
Company treats the Trust as its 
extension and shares of the Company 
held by Trust are treated as treasury 
shares. Other assets held by the 
Trust are consolidated on a line-by-
line basis with Company’s financial 
statements. Shares of other companies 
held by the Trust for distribution to its 
employees are separately disclosed 
under investments.
 
 
 
The Company has lost control over the 
Trust and accordingly, it is now not 
consolidated on a line-by-line basis 
with Company’s financial statements. 
	
o.	 Financial instruments
 
 
A financial instrument is any contract that 
gives rise to a financial asset of one entity 
and a financial liability or equity instrument 
of another entity.
	
	
Financial assets
 
 
Initial recognition and measurement
 
 
All financial assets are recognised initially 
at fair value plus, in the case of financial 
assets not recorded at fair value through 
profit or loss, transaction costs that are 
attributable to the acquisition of the 
financial asset. However, trade receivables 
that do not contain a significant financing 
component are measured at transaction 
price.
 
 
Subsequent measurement
 
 
For purposes of subsequent measurement, 
financial assets are classified in four 
categories:
 
 
• Debt instruments at amortized cost
 
 
• Debt instruments at fair value through 
other comprehensive income (FVTOCI)
 
 
• 
Debt instruments, derivatives and equity 
instruments at fair value through profit or 
loss (FVTPL)
 
 
• Equity instruments measured at fair 
value through other comprehensive 
income (FVTOCI)
 
 
Debt instruments at amortised cost
 
 
A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the 
amortised cost if both the following 
conditions are met:
 
 
a) The asset is held within a business 
model whose objective is to hold 
assets for collecting contractual cash 
flows, and
 
 
b) Contractual terms of the asset give 
rise on specified dates to cash flows 
that are solely payments of principal 
and interest (SPPI) on the principal 
amount outstanding.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 241
Annual Report 
2023
218
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
 
After initial measurement, such financial 
assets are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised 
cost is calculated by taking into account 
any discount or premium on acquisition 
and fees or costs that are an integral 
part of the EIR. The EIR amortization is 
included in finance income in the profit or 
loss. The losses arising from impairment 
are recognised in the profit or loss. This 
category generally applies to trade and 
other receivables and is most relevant to 
the Company.
 
 
Debt instrument at FVTOCI
 
 
A ‘debt instrument’ is classified as at the 
FVTOCI if both of the following criteria are 
met:
 
 
a) The objective of the business model is 
achieved both by collecting contractual 
cash flows and selling the financial 
assets,   and
 
 
b) The asset’s contractual cash flows 
represent SPPI.
 
 
Debt instruments included within the 
FVTOCI category are measured initially as 
well as at each reporting date at fair value. 
Fair value movements are recognized in 
the other comprehensive income (OCI). 
However, the Company recognizes 
interest income, impairment losses and 
reversals and foreign exchange gain or 
loss in the statement of profit and loss. 
On derecognition of the asset, cumulative 
gain or loss previously recognised in OCI 
is reclassified from the equity to the 
statement of profit and loss. Interest 
earned whilst holding FVTOCI debt 
instrument is reported as interest income 
using the EIR method.
 
 
Debt instrument at FVTPL
 
 
FVTPL is a residual category for debt 
instruments. Any debt instrument, 
which does not meet the criteria for 
categorization as at amortized cost or as 
FVTOCI, is classified as at FVTPL.
 
 
In addition, the Company may elect 
to designate a debt instrument, which 
otherwise meets amortized cost or 
FVTOCI criteria, as at FVTPL. However, 
such election is allowed only if doing so 
reduces or eliminates a measurement or 
recognition inconsistency (referred to as 
‘accounting mismatch’). 
 
 
Debt instruments included within the 
FVTPL category are measured at fair 
value with all changes recognized in the 
statement of profit and loss.
 
 
Equity investments
 
 
All equity investments in scope of Ind 
AS 109 are measured at fair value. The 
Company may make an irrevocable 
election to present in other comprehensive 
income subsequent changes in the fair 
value. The Company makes such election 
on an instrument-by-instrument basis. The 
classification is made on initial recognition 
and is irrevocable.
 
 
If the Company decides to classify an 
equity instrument as at FVTOCI, then all 
fair value changes on the instrument, 
excluding dividends, are recognized in the 
OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 242
Annual Report 
2023
219
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
from OCI to statement of profit or loss, 
even on sale of investment. However, the 
Company may transfer the cumulative gain 
or loss within equity.
 
 
Equity instruments included within the 
FVTPL category are measured at fair 
value with all changes recognized in the 
statement of profit and loss.
 
 
The equity securities which are not held 
for trading, and for which the Company 
has made an irrevocable election at initial 
recognition to recognize changes in fair 
value through OCI rather than profit or 
loss as these are strategic investments 
and the Company considered this to be 
more relevant.
 
 
Equity investments in subsidiaries, 
associates and joint ventures are measured 
at cost. The investments are reviewed at 
each reporting date to determine whether 
there is any indication of impairment 
considering the provisions of Ind AS 
36 ‘Impairment of Assets’. If any such 
indication exists, policy for impairment 
of non-financial assets is followed.
 
 
Derecognition
 
 
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a 
part of a financial asset or part of a group 
of similar financial assets) is primarily 
derecognised (i.e. removed from the 
Company’s balance sheet) when:
 
 
• The rights to receive cash flows from 
the asset have expired, or
 
 
• The Company has transferred its rights 
to receive cash flows from the asset 
or has assumed an obligation to pay 
the received cash flows in full without 
material delay to a third party under 
a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and 
either (a) the Company has transferred 
substantially all the risks and rewards of 
the asset, or (b) the Company has neither 
transferred nor retained substantially all 
the risks and rewards of the asset, but 
has transferred control of the asset.
 
 
When the Company has transferred its 
rights to receive cash flows from an 
asset or has entered into a pass-through 
arrangement, it evaluates if and to what 
extent it has retained the risks and 
rewards of ownership. When it has neither 
transferred nor retained substantially all 
of the risks and rewards of the asset, 
nor transferred control of the asset, the 
Company continues to recognise the 
transferred asset to the extent of the 
Company’s continuing involvement. In that 
case, the Company also recognises an 
associated liability. The transferred asset 
and the associated liability are measured 
on a basis that reflects the rights and 
obligations that the Company has retained.
 
 
Impairment of financial assets
 
 
In accordance with Ind AS 109, the 
Company applies expected credit loss 
(ECL) model for measurement and 
recognition of impairment loss on financial 
assets that are debt instruments, and are 
measured at amortised cost e.g., loans, 
debt securities, deposits, trade receivables 
and bank balance.
 
 
The Company follows ‘simplified 
approach’ for recognition of impairment 
loss allowance on trade receivables. The 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 243
Annual Report 
2023
220
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
application of simplified approach does not 
require the Company to track changes in 
credit risk. Rather, it recognises impairment 
loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at 
each reporting date, right from its initial 
recognition. 
 
 
For recognition of impairment loss on other 
financial assets and risk exposure, the 
Company determines that whether there 
has been a significant increase in the credit 
risk since initial recognition. If credit risk 
has not increased significantly, 12-month 
expected credit loss (ECL) is used to 
provide for impairment loss. However, 
if credit risk has increased significantly, 
lifetime ECL is used. If, in a subsequent 
period, credit quality of the instrument 
improves such that there is no longer a 
significant increase in credit risk since 
initial recognition, then the entity reverts 
to recognising impairment loss allowance 
based on 12-month ECL.
 
 
Lifetime ECL are the expected credit 
losses resulting from all possible default 
events over the expected life of a financial 
instrument. The 12-month ECL is a portion 
of the lifetime ECL which results from 
default events that are possible within 12 
months after the reporting date. 
 
 
ECL is the difference between all 
contractual cash flows that are due to 
the Company in accordance with the 
contract and all the cash flows that the 
entity expects to receive (i.e., all cash 
shortfalls), discounted at the original EIR.
 
 
The Company uses a provision matrix 
to determine impairment loss allowance 
on portfolio of its trade receivables. The 
provision matrix is based on its historically 
observed default rates over the expected 
life of the trade receivables and is adjusted 
for forward-looking estimates. At every 
reporting date, the historical observed 
default rates are updated and changes 
in the forward-looking estimates are 
analyzed.
 
 
ECL impairment loss allowance (or 
reversal) recognized during the period 
is recognized as income/ expense in the 
statement of profit and loss. This amount 
is reflected under the head other expenses 
in the statement of profit and loss. For the 
financial assets measured as at amortised 
cost, ECL is presented as an allowance, 
i.e., as an integral part of the measurement 
of those assets in the balance sheet. The 
allowance reduces the net carrying amount. 
Until the asset meets write-off criteria, 
the Company does not reduce impairment 
allowance from the gross carrying amount.
	
	
Financial liabilities
 
 
Initial recognition and measurement
 
 
Financial liabilities are classified, at initial 
recognition, as financial liabilities at fair 
value through profit or loss, loans and 
borrowings, payables, or as derivatives 
designated as hedging instruments in an 
effective hedge, as appropriate.
 
 
All financial liabilities are recognised initially 
at fair value and, in the case of loans and 
borrowings and payables, net of directly 
attributable transaction costs.
 
 
The Company’s financial liabilities include 
borrowings, lease liabilities, trade and 
other payables. 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 244
Annual Report 
2023
221
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
 
Subsequent measurement
 
 
The measurement of financial liabilities 
depends on their classification as 
described below: 
 
 
Loans and borrowings
 
 
After initial recognition, interest-bearing 
loans and borrowings are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the EIR 
method. Gains and losses are recognised 
in profit or loss when the liabilities are 
derecognised as well as through the EIR 
amortisation process.
 
 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking 
into account any discount or premium 
on acquisition and fees or costs that 
are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR 
amortisation is included as finance costs 
in the statement of profit and loss.
 
 
Derecognition
 
 
A financial liability is derecognised when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged 
or cancelled or expires. When an existing 
financial liability is replaced by another 
from the same lender on substantially 
different terms, or the terms of an existing 
liability are substantially modified, such 
an exchange or modification is treated as 
the derecognition of the original liability 
and the recognition of a new liability. 
The difference in the respective carrying 
amounts is recognised in the statement 
of profit or loss.
 
 
Embedded derivatives
 
 
An embedded derivative is a component of 
a hybrid (combined) instrument that also 
includes a non-derivative host contract 
– with the effect that some of the cash 
flows of the combined instrument vary in 
a way similar to a stand-alone derivative. 
An embedded derivative causes some 
or all of the cash flows that otherwise 
would be required by the contract to be 
modified according to a specified interest 
rate, financial instrument price, commodity 
price, foreign exchange rate, index of 
prices or rates, credit rating or credit index, 
or other variable, provided in the case of 
a non-financial variable that the variable 
is not specific to a party to the contract.  
 
 
Reassessment only occurs if there is either 
a change in the terms of the contract 
that significantly modifies the cash flows 
that would otherwise be required or a 
reclassification of a financial asset out of 
the fair value through profit or loss.
 
 
If the hybrid contract contains a host that 
is a financial asset within the scope of Ind 
AS 109, the Company does not separate 
embedded derivatives. Rather, it applies 
the classification requirements contained 
in Ind AS 109 to the entire hybrid contract. 
Derivatives embedded in all other host 
contracts are accounted for as separate 
derivatives and recorded at fair value if 
their economic characteristics and risks 
are not closely related to those of the host 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 245
Annual Report 
2023
222
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
contracts and the host contracts are not 
held for trading or designated at fair value 
though profit or loss. These embedded 
derivatives are measured at fair value with 
changes in fair value recognized in profit 
or loss, unless designated as effective 
hedging instruments.
	
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
 
 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are 
offset and the net amount is reported in 
the balance sheet if there is a currently 
enforceable legal right to offset the 
recognised amounts and there is an intention 
to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets 
and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
	
p.	 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
Cash and cash equivalent in the standalone 
balance sheet comprise cash at banks and 
on hand and short-term deposits with an 
original maturity of three months or less, 
which are subject to an insignificant risk 
of changes in value.
 
 
For the purpose of the standalone 
statement of cash flows, cash and cash 
equivalents consist of cash and short-
term deposits, as defined above, net 
of outstanding bank overdrafts as they 
are considered an integral part of the 
Company’s cash management.
	
q.	 Leases
	
	
The Company as a lessee
 
 
The Company’s lease asset classes primarily 
consist of leases for land and office 
premises. The Company assesses whether 
a contract contains a lease, at inception of a 
contract. A contract is, or contains, a lease 
if the contract conveys the right to control 
the use of an identified asset for a period 
of time in exchange for consideration. To 
assess whether a contract conveys the 
right to control the use of an identified 
asset, the Company assesses whether: (i) 
the contact involves the use of an identified 
asset (ii) the Company has substantially all 
of the economic benefits from use of the 
asset through the period of the lease and 
(iii) the Company has the right to direct the 
use of the asset.
 
 
At the date of commencement of the 
lease, the Company recognizes a right-
of-use asset (“ROU”) and a corresponding 
lease liability for all lease arrangements in 
which it is a lessee, except for leases with 
a term of twelve months or less (short-
term leases) and low value leases. For 
these short-term and low value leases, the 
Company recognizes the lease payments 
as an operating expense on a straight-line 
basis over the term of the lease.
 
 
Certain lease arrangements includes the 
options to extend or terminate the lease 
before the end of the lease term. ROU 
assets and lease liabilities includes these 
options when it is reasonably certain that 
they will be exercised.
 
 
The right-of-use assets are initially 
recognized at cost, which comprises the 
initial amount of the lease liability adjusted 
for any lease payments made at or prior 
to the commencement date of the lease 
plus any initial direct costs less any 
lease incentives. They are subsequently 
measured at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses, if any.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 246
Annual Report 
2023
223
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
 
Right-of-use assets are depreciated from 
the commencement date on a straight-line 
basis over the shorter of the lease term and 
useful life of the underlying asset. Right-of-
use assets are evaluated for recoverability 
whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that their carrying amounts may 
not be recoverable. For the purpose of 
impairment testing, the recoverable amount 
(i.e. the higher of the fair value less cost to 
sell and the value-in-use) is determined on 
an individual asset basis unless the asset 
does not generate cash flows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets. 
In such cases, the recoverable amount is 
determined for the Cash Generating Unit 
(CGU) to which the asset belongs.
 
 
The lease liability is initially measured 
at amortized cost at the present value 
of the future lease payments. The 
lease payments are discounted using 
the interest rate implicit in the lease 
or, if not readily determinable, using 
the incremental borrowing rates in the 
country of domicile of these leases. 
Lease liabilities are remeasured with a 
corresponding adjustment to the related 
right-of-use asset if the Company changes 
its assessment if whether it will exercise 
an extension or a termination option.
 
 
Lease liability and ROU asset have been 
separately presented in the standalone 
balance sheet and lease payments have 
been classified as financing cash flows.
	
r.	 Earnings/ (loss) per share (EPS)
 
 
Basic EPS amounts are calculated by 
dividing the profit/(loss) for the year 
attributable to equity holders by the 
weighted average number of Equity shares 
outstanding during the year.
 
 
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by 
dividing the profit/(loss) attributable to 
equity holders by the weighted average 
number of Equity shares outstanding during 
the year plus the weighted average number 
of Equity shares that would be issued on 
conversion of all the dilutive potential Equity 
shares into Equity shares. 
	
s.	 Treasury shares
 
 
Own equity instruments that are reacquired 
(treasury shares) are recognised at cost 
and deducted from equity. No gain or 
loss is recognised in profit or loss on the 
purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the 
Company’s own equity instruments. Any 
difference between the carrying amount 
and the consideration, if reissued, is 
recognised in other reserve. 
	
t.	 Segment reporting
 
 
Operating segments are reported in a 
manner consistent with the internal 
reporting provided to the chief operating 
decision-maker. The Chief Operating 
decision-maker is responsible for allocating 
resources and assessing performance 
of the operating segments and makes 
strategic decisions.
	
u.	 Use of estimates 
 
 
The Company is required to make estimates 
and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of assets, liabilities, disclosure 
of contingent liabilities at the date of the 
financial statements and the reported 
amounts of revenue and expenses during 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 247
Annual Report 
2023
224
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
the reporting period. Actual results could 
differ from those estimates. The Company 
bases its estimates on historical experience 
and on various other assumptions that 
are believed to be reasonable, the results 
of which form the basis for making 
judgements about carrying values of 
assets and liabilities.
	
v.	 Exceptional Items
 
 
On certain occasions, the size, type or 
incidence of an item of income or expense, 
pertaining to the ordinary activities of 
the Company is such that its disclosure 
improves the understanding of the 
performance of the Company. Such income 
or expense is classified as an exceptional 
item and accordingly disclosed in the 
financial statements. Significant impact 
on the financial statements arising from 
impairment of investments in subsidiaries 
and associates, gain/ loss on disposal of 
subsidiaries and associates (other than 
major lines of business that meet the 
definition of a discontinued operation) are 
considered and reported as exceptional 
items.
	
w.	Contributed Equity
 
 
Equity shares are classified as equity.
 
 
The transaction costs of an equity 
transaction are accounted for as a 
deduction from equity (net of any related 
income tax benefit) to the extent they 
are incremental costs directly attributable 
to the equity transaction that otherwise 
would have been avoided. Qualifying 
transaction costs incurred in anticipation 
of an issuance of equity instruments is 
deferred on the balance sheet until the 
equity instrument is recognised. Deferred 
costs are subsequently reclassified as a 
deduction from equity when the equity 
instruments are recognised. If the equity 
instruments are not subsequently issued, 
the deferred transaction costs are charged 
off to profit or loss.
 
 
The transaction costs incurred with respect 
to the IPO of the Company as reduced by 
the amount recovered from the selling 
shareholders are allocated between new 
issue of shares and listing of existing 
equity shares. The costs attributable to 
listing of existing shares is recognised in 
profit or loss and the costs attributable to 
new issuance of shares is recognised in 
equity.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 248
Annual Report 
2023
225
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
3(a). Property, plant and equipment
Particulars
Computers
Furniture 
and Fittings
Leasehold 
Improvements Vehicles
Office 
Equipments
Plant & 
Machinery^
Total
Gross carrying amount
As at April 1, 2021
 3,482 
 42 
 72 
 12 
 269 
 2,612  6,489 
Additions
 639 
 5 
 9 
 - 
 27 
 4,057  4,737 
Disposals
 124 
 22 
 - 
 - 
 26 
 * 
 172 
As at March 31, 2022 
 3,997 
 25 
 81 
 12 
 270 
 6,669 11,054 
As at April 1, 2022
 3,997 
 25 
 81 
 12 
 270 
 6,669 11,054 
Additions
 253 
 2 
 - 
 - 
 19 
 6,738  7,012 
Disposals
 499 
 6 
 - 
 1 
 17 
 289 
 812 
As at March 31, 2023 
 3,751 
 21 
 81 
 11 
 272 
 13,118 17,254 
Accumulated depreciation 
As at April 1, 2021
 2,516 
 28 
 46 
 3 
 134 
 1,012  3,739 
For the year
 524 
 4 
 9 
 2 
 26 
 1,476  2,041 
Disposals
 115 
 19 
 - 
 - 
 23 
 * 
 157 
As at March 31, 2022
 2,925 
 13 
 55 
 5 
 137 
 2,488  5,623 
As at April 1, 2022
 2,925 
 13 
 55 
 5 
 137 
 2,488  5,623 
For the year
 630 
 3 
 9 
 2 
 24 
 3,569  4,237 
Disposals
 452 
 5 
 - 
 1 
 15 
 271 
 744 
As at March 31, 2023
 3,103 
 11 
 64 
 6 
 146 
 5,786  9,116 
Net carrying amount
As at March 31, 2023
 648 
 10 
 17 
 5 
 126 
 7,332  8,138 
As at March 31, 2022
 1,072 
 12 
 26 
 7 
 133 
 4,181  5,431 
Notes:
(i) Capital work in progress (Refer note 3(c))
 
Capital work in progress mainly comprises of servers and electrical devices. Further, Capital 
work-in-progress includes expenditure of INR 40 (March 31, 2022: INR 40) relating to expenses 
incurred on construction of office premises.
(ii) Refer to note 28 (b) for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, 
plant and equipment.
 
^ Plant and machinery includes Gross carrying amount INR 10,460 (March 31, 2022: INR 4,678), 
Accumulated depreciation INR 4,553 (March 31, 2022: INR 1,875), Net carrying amount INR 5,907 
(March 31, 2022: INR 2,803) of point-of-sale machines and sound boxes installed at customers 
premise.
 
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 249
Annual Report 
2023
226
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
3 (b). Leases
A.	Right-of-use assets
Particulars
 Right-of-use 
Leasehold Land 
 Right-of-use 
Office Premises 
 Total 
Gross Carrying Amount
As at April 1, 2021
 844 
 719 
 1,563 
Additions
 - 
 1,928 
 1,928 
Disposals (refer note below)
 - 
 6 
 6 
As at March 31, 2022
 844 
 2,641 
 3,485 
As at April 1, 2022
 844 
 2,641 
 3,485 
Additions
 - 
 405 
 405 
Disposals (refer note below)
 - 
 8 
 8 
As at March 31, 2023
 844 
 3,038 
 3,882 
Accumulated Depreciation
As at April 1, 2021
 20 
 478 
 498 
For the Year
 10 
 191 
 201 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2022
 30 
 669 
 699 
As at April 1, 2022
 30 
 669 
 699 
For the Year
 10 
 378 
 388 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2023
 40 
 1,047 
 1,087 
Net Carrying Amount
As at March 31, 2023
 804 
 1,991 
 2,795 
As at March 31, 2022
 814 
 1,972 
 2,786 
B.	Lease Liabilities
Particulars
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Lease Liability on Land- Current
 - 
 58 
Lease Liability on Office Premises- Current
 267 
 260 
Lease Liability on Office Premises- Non-Current
 1,799 
 1,724 
Total
 2,066 
 2,042 
Total lease liability - Current
 267 
 318 
Total lease liability - Non-Current
 1,799 
 1,724 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 250
Annual Report 
2023
227
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
3 (b). Leases (Contd..)
C.	Amounts recognised in Statement of profit and loss
Particulars
Notes
For the year 
ended
March 31, 2023
For the year 
ended
March 31, 2022
Depreciation charge of Right-of-use assets
Land
 10 
 10 
Office Premises*
 378 
 191 
Total 
18
 388 
 201 
Interest expense (included in finance cost)
19
 185 
 75 
Expense relating to short-term lease 
(included in other expenses)
20
 5 
 42 
 
*  This amount is including cross charge of INR Nil (March 31, 2022: 7). Net depreciation charge 
of Right-of-use assets in profit & loss is INR 388 (March 31, 2022: 194).
 
The lease term is reassessed if an option is actually exercised (or not exercised) or the Company 
becomes obliged to exercise (or not exercise) it. The assessment of reasonable certainty is only 
revised if a significant event or a significant change in circumstances occurs, which affects this 
assessment, and that is within the control of the lessee. The Company has given notice to vacate 
certain office premises. This has been accounted as lease termination. Hence, in accordance with 
Ind AS 116, Lease Liability has been re-measured by INR 9 ( March 31, 2022: 9) with corresponding 
adjustment to Right-of-Use assets amounting to INR 8 (March 31, 2022: 6) and the remaining 
balance has been included in Miscellaneous Income disclosed under Other Income in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss.
 
The total cash outflow for leases for the year ended is INR 554 (March 31, 2022: 314)
	
Extension and termination options:
 
Extension and termination options are included in certain leases. These are used to maximise 
operational flexibility in terms of managing the assets used in the Company’s operations. In certain 
cases, the extension and termination options held are exercisable only by the Company and not 
by the respective lessor.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 251
Annual Report 
2023
228
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
3 (b). Leases (Contd..)
Particulars
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Lease 
liabilities
Current 
borrowings
Lease 
liabilities
Current 
borrowings
Opening debt
 2,042 
 - 
 440 
 5,444 
Non cash adjustments (includes 
termination of leases)
 393 
 - 
 1,841 
 - 
Cash flows/ assets acquired
 (369)
 - 
 (239)
 (5,444)
Interest expense
 185 
 - 
 75 
 293 
Interest paid
 (185)
 - 
 (75)
 (293)
Total 
 2,066 
 - 
 2,042 
 - 
CWIP
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 Years
Projects in progress
 56 
 2 
 2 
 37 
 97 
CWIP
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 Years
Projects in progress
23
8
1
39
 71 
3 (c) Capital-work-in progress aging schedule
Capital-work-in progress (CWIP) for the year ended March 31, 2023
Capital-work-in progress (CWIP) for the year ended March 31, 2022
	
Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 252
Annual Report 
2023
229
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Intangible assets under 
development
Amount for a period of
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 Years
Projects in progress
14
 - 
 1 
 - 
 15 
Intangible assets under 
development
Amount for a period of
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 Years
Projects in progress
4
 * 
 - 
 - 
 4 
3 (d) Intangible assets under development aging schedule
Intangible assets under development aging schedule for the year ended March 31, 2023
Intangible assets under development aging schedule for the year ended March 31, 2022
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
4. Intangible assets
Particulars
 Software  Internally Generated 
Software 
 Total 
Gross carrying amount
As at April 1, 2021
 429 
 1 
 430 
Additions
 41 
 - 
 41 
Disposals
 191 
 - 
 191 
As at March 31, 2022
 279 
 1 
 280 
As at April 1, 2022
 279 
 1 
 280 
Additions
 114 
 315 
 429 
Disposals
 3 
 - 
 3 
As at March 31, 2023
 390 
 316 
 706 
Accumulated amortisation
As at April 1, 2021
 339 
 1 
 340 
For the year
 47 
 * 
 47 
Disposals
 190 
 - 
 190 
As at March 31, 2022
 196 
 1 
 197 
As at April 1, 2022
 196 
 1 
 197 
For the year
 60 
 11 
 71 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2023
 256 
 12 
 268 
Net carrying amount
As at March 31, 2023
 134 
 304 
 438 
As at March 31, 2022
 83 
 - 
 83 
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 253
Annual Report 
2023
230
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
5. Investment in subsidiaries - Non Current
As at  
March 31, 2023 
As at  
March 31, 2022
Investment in equity instruments
Unquoted equity shares (Fully paid up)
One97 Communications Nigeria Limited
 3 
 3 
10,000,000 (March 31, 2022 : 10,000,000) equity shares of 
NGN 1 each
One97 Communications FZ LLC
 21 
 21 
1,500 (March 31, 2022 : 1,500) equity shares of AED 1000 
each
One 97 Communications India Limited
 832 
 832 
83,150,000 (March 31, 2022 : 83,150,000) equity shares of 
INR 10 each
One97 Communications Singapore Private Limited
 1,113 
 940 
3,356,100 (March 31, 2022 : 3,356,100) equity shares of SGD 
1 each
One97 USA Inc
 33 
 33 
532,000 (March 31, 2022 : 532,000) equity shares of USD 1 
each 
Paytm Entertainment Limited
 2,824 
 2,691 
78,873,755 (March 31, 2022 : 78,873,755) equity shares of 
face value of INR 10 each
Paytm Money Limited
 2,779 
 2,701 
258,870,000 (March 31, 2022 : 258,870,000) equity shares 
of face value of INR 10 each
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited (Refer note (iii) 
below)
 884 
 735 
51,673 (March 31, 2022 : 51,673) equity shares of INR 10 each
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited (Refer note (ii) below)
 259 
 309 
974,880 (March 31, 2022 : 974,880) equity shares of INR 10 
each 
Urja Money Private Limited
 225 
 227 
2,102,245 (March 31, 2022 : 2,102,245) equity shares of INR 
10 each 
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 192 
 180 
201,634 (March 31, 2022 : 201,634) equity shares of INR 10 
each

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 254
Annual Report 
2023
231
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
5. Investment in subsidiaries - Non Current
As at  
March 31, 2023 
As at  
March 31, 2022
Little Internet Private Limited (Refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
13,997,263 (March 31, 2022 : 13,997,263) equity shares of 
face value of INR 10 each
Paytm Services Private Limited
 49 
 52 
3,000,000 (March 31, 2022 : 3,000,000) equity shares of 
face value of INR 10 each
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited (Refer note (iv) below)
 274 
 774 
75,000,000 (March 31, 2022 : 75,000,000) equity shares of 
face value of INR 10 each
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 1,266 
 1,175 
50,000,000 (March 31, 2022 : 50,000,000) equity shares of 
face value of INR 10 each
Total (A)
 10,754 
 10,673 
Unquoted compulsorily convertible preference shares 
(Fully paid up)
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 22 
 22 
35,710 (March 31, 2022 : 35,710) compulsory convertible 
preference shares of INR 10 each
Total (B)
 22 
 22 
Grand Total [A+B]
 10,776 
 10,695 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 10,776 
 10,695 
Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of investment
 5,510 
 4,880 
(i) Net of provision for impairment amounting to INR 2,714 (March 31, 2022: 2,713). Also Refer note 21.
(ii) Net of provision for impairment amounting to INR 1,421 (March 31, 2022 : 1,317). Also Refer note 21.
(iii) Net of provision for impairment amounting to INR 850 (March 31, 2022: 850). Also Refer note 21.
(iv) Net of provision for impairment amounting to INR 525 (March 31, 2022: Nil). Also Refer note 21.
6. Investment in associates - Non Current
As at  
March 31, 2023 
As at  
March 31, 2022
Unquoted equity shares (Fully paid up)
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 1,653 
 1,560 
156,003,900 (March 31, 2022 : 156,003,900) equity shares of 
INR 10 each

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 255
Annual Report 
2023
232
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
6. Investment in associates - Non Current
(i) Net of provision for impairment amounting to INR 26 (March 31, 2022: 26), INR 428 (March 31, 
2022 : 428) and INR 330 (March 31, 2022 : 330) for Paytm Insuretech Private Limited, Socomo 
Technologies Private Limited and Eatgood Technologies Private Limited, respectively.
 
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
As at  
March 31, 2023 
As at  
March 31, 2022
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 10 
 10 
980,000 (March 31, 2022 : 980,000) equity shares of INR 10 
each
Paytm Life Insurance Limited
 * 
 * 
49,000 (March 31, 2022 : 49,000) equity shares of INR 10 
each
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 76 
 20 
2,000,000 (March 31, 2022 : 2,000,000) equity shares of INR 
10 each
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited (Formerly known as QorQl 
Private Limited) (refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
2,560,938 (March 31, 2022 : 2,560,938) equity shares of INR 
10 each
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited (refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
2,879 (March 31, 2022 : 2,879) equity shares of INR 10 each
Total (A)
 1,739 
 1,590 
Unquoted compulsorily convertible preference shares 
(Fully paid up)
Socomo Technologies Private Limited (refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
28,800 (March 31, 2022 : 28,800) Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference share of face value of INR 1 each
Infinity Transoft Solutions Private Limited
 100 
 100 
3,618 (March 31, 2022 : 3,618) Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference share of face value of INR 10 each
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited (refer note (i) below)
 242 
 242 
72,373 (March 31, 2022 : 72,373) Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference share of face value of INR 100 each
Total (B)
 342 
 342 
Grand Total [A+B]
 2,081 
 1,932 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 2,081 
 1,932 
Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of investment
 784 
 784 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 256
Annual Report 
2023
233
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
As at  
March 31, 2023 
As at  
March 31, 2022
Investments at amortised cost
Investments in Debt instruments
Commercial papers (quoted)
 7,694 
 - 
Treasury bills (quoted)
 2,801 
 - 
Total Current investments
 10,495 
 - 
As at  
March 31, 2023 
As at  
March 31, 2022
Investments at fair value through OCI (refer note (ii) below)
Unquoted equity shares (Fully paid up)
ZEPO Technologies Private Limited
 23 
 23 
3,458 (March 31, 2022 : 3,458) Equity shares of face value 
INR 10 each
Total (A) 
 23 
 23 
Investments at fair value through Profit and loss
Unquoted Compulsorily Convertible Preference shares 
(Fully paid up)
RainingClouds Tech Private Limited (Refer note (iii) below)
 - 
 - 
Nil (March 31, 2022 : 3,620) Redeemable Convertible 
Preference Shares of INR 10 each
Fable Fintech Private Limited (formerly known as Avenues 
Payments India Private Limited (Refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
11,379 (March 31, 2022 : 11,379) Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference share of face value of INR 100 each
Loginext Solutions Private Limited (refer note (iii) below)
 - 
 - 
Nil (March 31, 2022 : 279,443) Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference share of face value of INR 10 each
Rooter Sports Technologies Private Limited
 40 
 40 
1,160 (March 31, 2022 : 1,160) Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference share of face value INR 10 each
 40 
 40 
Unquoted optionally convertible debentures (Fully paid up)
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 67 
 32 
5,999,731 (March 31, 2022 : 2,999,862) 10% Debentures of 
face value INR 10 each 
7(a) Other investments - Current
7(b) Other investments - Non-Current

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 257
Annual Report 
2023
234
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
As at  
March 31, 2023 
As at  
March 31, 2022
Admirable Software Limited 
 263 
 241 
23,109,232 (March 31, 2022 : 23,109,232) 10% Debentures of 
face value INR 10 each 
Nearbuy India Private Limited 
 - 
 58 
13,000,000 (March 31, 2022 : 13,000,000) 10% Debentures 
of face value INR 10 each
Urja Money Private Limited
 34 
 32 
3,000,000 (March 31, 2022 : 3,000,000) 10% Debentures of 
face value INR 10 each
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 165 
 - 
21,951,000 (March 31, 2022 : Nil) 10% Debentures of face 
value INR 10 each 
Massive Mobility Private Limited
 106 
 - 
10,000,000 (March 31, 2022 : Nil) 10% Debentures of face 
value INR 10 each
 635 
 363 
Total (B) 
 675 
 403 
Investments at amortised cost
Investments in Debt instruments
Government securities (quoted)
 884 
 - 
Total (C) 
 884 
 - 
Total Non-Current investments [A+B+C]
 1,582 
 426 
Total Current Investments
 10,495 
 - 
Total Non-Current Investments
 1,582 
 426 
 12,077 
 426 
Aggregate book value of unquoted investments
 698 
 426 
Aggregate book value of quoted investments
 11,379 
 - 
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 11,379 
 - 
7(b) Other investments - Non-Current (Contd..)
Notes to 7(b) 
(i) The Company holds these investments, however the fair value is Nil.
(ii) Investments at fair value through OCI (fully paid) reflect investment in unquoted equity securities. 
Refer note 30 for determination of their fair values.
(iii) These companies have ceased to exist in the Ministry of Corporate Affairs records as of 
March 31, 2023.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 258
Annual Report 
2023
235
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
Inter Corporate Loans#
 
with related parties (Refer note 25) ##
 1,536 
 1,681 
 404 
 551 
 
Others
 - 
 - 
 470 
 500 
Less: Loss allowance for inter corporate 
loans
 - 
 - 
 (504)
 (537)
 1,536 
 1,681 
 370 
 514 
As at
As at
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
Secured, considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Unsecured, considered good
 1,536 
 1,681 
 370 
 514 
Loans which have significant increase in 
credit risk
 - 
 - 
 504 
 537 
Loans Credit Impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,536 
 1,681 
 874 
 1,051 
Less: Loss allowance for inter corporate 
loans
 - 
 - 
 (504)
 (537)
Total Loans
 1,536 
 1,681 
 370 
 514 
7(c) Loans
Break-up of security details
#Inter corporate loans are given after complying with the provisions of section 186 of the Companies 
Act, 2013. The loans have been given in accordance with terms and conditions of the underlying 
agreements. Outstanding loans carry interest rate in the range of 8% to 12% (March 31, 2022 : 5.10% 
to 12%).
No loans or advances are recoverable from directors or other officers of the Company either 
severally or jointly with any other person. Nor any loans or advances are recoverable from firms or 
private companies respectively in which any director is a partner, a director or a member, except as 
disclosed in note 25.
## Loan of INR 803, INR 402 and INR 408 has been given to First Games Technology Private Limited 
(formerly known as Paytm First Games Private Limited) on June 7, 2021, September 30, 2021 and 
January 27, 2022 respectively. The Company has the rights of conversion into a variable number of 
shares in First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known as Paytm First Games Private Limited) 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 259
Annual Report 
2023
236
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
(Joint venture of Paytm Entertainment Limited, wholly owned subsidiary) at fair market value and with 
mutual consent, during the tenure of loan. The interest is payable at the end of the repayment period. 
The loan has been fair valued through profit and loss (FVTPL) since it does not meet the SPPI test.
7(c) Loans (Contd..)
Particulars
As at  
March 31 2022
Face value of loan given
 1,613 
Fair value of loan on inception
 1,317 
Deemed investment in First Games Technology Private Limited 
(formerly known as Paytm First Games Private Limited)#
 296 
# There has been no movement in deemed investment during the year ended March 31, 2023. 
The Company has not granted loans to its directors, KMPs and the related parties (as defined under 
Companies Act, 2013) which are repayable on demand or without specifying any terms or period of 
repayment. In certain cases, the Company has the right to demand for payment before specified period. 
The details of such loans given to related parties are as follows:
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Amount of loan or advance in the nature of loan outstanding 
as specified above
 433 
 870 
Percentage to the total Loans and Advances in the nature of 
loans
18%
32%
Particulars
Interest 
Rates
Gross inter 
corporate loans 
outstanding as at
Maximum amount 
of inter corporate 
loans outstanding 
during the year
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
First Games Technology Private Limited 
(formerly known as Paytm First Games 
Private Limited) #
8.00%
 1,796 
 1,679 
 1,796 
 1,679 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
5.10%
 - 
 471 
 471 
 471 
Details of loans (gross) as per Section 186 (4) of Companies Act, 2013 and 
Disclosure as per Regulation 34 (3) read with Part A of Schedule V of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 in respect 
of loans/ advances/ investments outstanding as at year end

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 260
Annual Report 
2023
237
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
7(c) Loans (Contd..)
Particulars
Interest 
Rates
Gross inter 
corporate loans 
outstanding as at
Maximum amount 
of inter corporate 
loans outstanding 
during the year
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
12.00%
 324 
 293 
 324 
 293 
Little Internet Private Limited
12.00%
 80 
 80 
 80 
 80 
Urja Money Private Limited
12.00%
 29 
 26 
 29 
 26 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
12.00%
 - 
 - 
 - 
 20 
Note:
(i) The above loans have been provided for general corporate purposes.
 
# Excluding fair valuation impact amounting to INR 289 (March 31, 2022: 317)
7(d) Other financial assets
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
Security deposits
 877 
 705 
 1,250 
 1,410 
Less: Loss allowance for security deposits
 (18)
 (37)
 (213)
 - 
A
 859 
 668 
 1,037 
 1,410 
Bank balances
Deposits with original maturity for more 
than 12 months (Refer footnote (b) and (d) 
to note 10(a))
 - 
 38,700 
 - 
 - 
Others
Advances recoverable in cash
 - 
 - 
 356 
 116 
Less: Loss allowance
 - 
 - 
 (8)
 - 
Interest accrued but not due on fixed 
deposits
 - 
 630 
 804 
 502 
Interest accrued on security deposit
 - 
 - 
 140 
 138 
Less: Loss allowance
 - 
 - 
 (138)
 - 
B
 - 
 39,330 
 1,154 
 756 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 261
Annual Report 
2023
238
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
Amount recoverable from Payment 
Gateway banks*
Unsecured, considered good
Amount recoverable from other parties
 - 
 - 
 2,087 
 1,109 
Amount recoverable from related parties 
(Refer note 25)
 - 
 - 
 16,561 
 17,342 
Unsecured, considered doubtful
Amount recoverable from other parties
 - 
 - 
 287 
 132 
 - 
 - 
 18,935 
 18,583 
Less : Loss allowance
 - 
 - 
 (287)
 (132)
C
 - 
 - 
 18,648 
 18,451 
Unsecured, considered good
Amount recoverable from related parties 
(Refer note 25)#
 1,384 
 1,780 
 1,500 
 1,361 
Amount recoverable from other parties 
(Refer note 34)
 - 
 - 
 5 
 13 
Amount recoverable from other parties
 - 
 - 
 178 
 348 
Unsecured, considered doubtful 
Amount recoverable from related parties 
(Refer note 25)
 - 
 - 
 44 
 37 
 1,384 
 1,780 
 1,727 
 1,759 
Less: Loss allowance for recoverable from 
related parties
 - 
 - 
 (44)
 (37)
D
 1,384 
 1,780 
 1,683 
 1,722 
Total [A+B+C+D]
 2,243 
 41,778 
 22,522 
 22,339 
7(d) Other financial assets (Contd..)
#Includes an amount of INR Nil (March 31, 2022 : INR 10) which has been set off against payable 
balance of INR Nil (March 31, 2022 : INR 4) as the Company has contractual right to offset the advance 
against the payable balance and also has the intention to settle the same on net basis.
* The amount represent recoverable from payment gateway banks on account of credit card/debit 
card and net banking/UPI transactions related to third party merchants.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 262
Annual Report 
2023
239
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
At cost
Investment in subsidiaries (Refer note 5)
 10,776 
 10,695 
 - 
 - 
Investment in associates (Refer note 6)
 2,081 
 1,932 
 - 
 - 
 12,857 
 12,627 
 - 
 - 
At amortised cost
Trade receivables (Refer note 8)
 - 
 - 
 11,421 
 7,059 
Cash and cash equivalents (Refer note 
10(a))
 - 
 - 
 30,029 
 10,664 
Bank balances other than cash and cash 
equivalents (Refer note 10(b))
 - 
 - 
 33,092 
 37,690 
Inter corporate loans (Refer note 7(c))
 29 
 319 
 370 
 514 
Other investments (Refer note 7(a))
 - 
 - 
 10,495 
 - 
Other investments (Refer note 7(b))
 884 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Others (Refer note7(d))
 2,243 
 41,778 
 22,522 
 22,339 
 3,156 
 42,097 
 1,07,929 
 78,266 
At fair value
Other investments at fair value through 
OCI (Refer note 7(b))
 23 
 23 
 - 
 - 
Inter corporate loans at fair value through 
Profit and loss (Refer note 7(c))
 1,507 
 1,362 
 - 
 - 
Investments at fair value through Profit 
and loss (Refer note 7(b))
 675 
 403 
 - 
 - 
 2,205 
 1,788 
 - 
 - 
7(d) Other financial assets (Contd..)
Break up of financial assets
8.	Trade receivables	
As at  
March 31, 2023 
As at  
March 31, 2022
Trade Receivables
 11,799 
 6,231 
Receivables from related parties (Refer Notes (i) & (ii) below)
 1,640 
 2,506 
Receivables from other parties (Refer note 34)
 16 
 30 
Less: Loss allowance
 (2,034)
 (1,708)
 11,421 
 7,059 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 263
Annual Report 
2023
240
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
As at  
March 31, 2023 
As at  
March 31, 2022
Current
 11,421 
 7,059 
Non-current
 - 
 - 
8.	Trade receivables (Contd..)
Break-up of security details
As at  
March 31, 2023 
As at  
March 31, 2022
Trade receivables
Secured, considered good
 - 
 - 
Unsecured, considered good
 12,301 
 7,918 
Trade receivable which have significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
Trade receivable Credit Impaired
 1,154 
 849 
Total
 13,455 
 8,767 
Less: Loss allowance
 (2,034)
 (1,708)
Total Trade receivables
 11,421 
 7,059 
(i) No trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the Company either 
severally or jointly with any other person. Nor any trade or other receivable are due from firms or 
private companies respectively in which any director is a partner, a director or a member, except 
as disclosed in note 25.
(ii) For related party receivables and related loss allowance, Refer note 25.
(iii) Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and generally carry a credit period of 30 days.
Trade Receivables ageing schedule for year ended March 31, 2023
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
Dues# Not due Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 
years
  2-3 
years 
More 
than 3 
Years
Total
(i) Undisputed Trade 
receivables – 
considered good
 5,632 
 3,975 
 1,689 
 310 
 412 
 160 
 123  12,301 
(ii) Undisputed Trade 
Receivables – which 
have significant 
increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 264
Annual Report 
2023
241
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
8.	Trade receivables (Contd..)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
Dues# Not due Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 
years
  2-3 
years 
More 
than 3 
Years
Total
(iii) Undisputed Trade 
Receivables – credit 
impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv) Disputed Trade 
Receivables–
considered good 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v) Disputed Trade 
Receivables – which 
have significant 
increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi) Disputed Trade 
Receivables – credit 
impaired
 26 
 5 
 111 
 88 
 79 
 60 
 785 
 1,154 
Total
 5,658 
 3,980 
 1,800 
 398 
 491 
 220 
 908 13,455 
Trade Receivables ageing schedule for year ended March 31, 2023
Trade Receivables ageing schedule for year ended March 31, 2022
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
Dues# Not due Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 
years
  2-3 
years 
 More 
than 3 
years 
 Total 
(i) Undisputed Trade 
receivables – considered 
good
 2,993 
 1,509 
 2,308 
 474  392  135 
 107  7,918 
(ii) Undisputed Trade 
Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit 
risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii) Undisputed Trade 
Receivables – credit 
impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv) Disputed Trade 
Receivables–considered 
good 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 265
Annual Report 
2023
242
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
Dues# Not due Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 
years
  2-3 
years 
 More 
than 3 
years 
 Total 
(v) Disputed Trade Receivables 
– which have significant 
increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi) Disputed Trade Receivables 
– credit impaired
 - 
 * 
 * 
 12 
 26 
 3 
 808  849 
Total
 2,993 
 1,509 
 2,308 
 486  418  138 
 915 8,767 
Trade Receivables ageing schedule for year ended March 31, 2022
8.	Trade receivables (Contd..)
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
#The receivable is ‘unbilled’ because the Company has not yet issued an invoice; however, the balance 
has been included under trade receivables (as opposed to contract assets) because the Company 
has an unconditional right to consideration.
9. Other assets 	
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
Capital advances                                
Unsecured, considered good 
 565 
 762 
 - 
 - 
Doubtful 
 1 
 1 
 - 
 - 
 566 
 763 
 - 
 - 
Less: Provision for doubtful advances 
 (1)
 (1)
 - 
 - 
 A 
 565 
 762 
 - 
 - 
Advances other than capital advances 
Advances to vendors 
Unsecured, considered good 
 2,042 
 1,636 
 3,553 
 3,500 
Doubtful 
 - 
 - 
 217 
 92 
 2,042 
 1,636 
 3,770 
 3,592 
Less: Provision for doubtful advances 
 - 
 - 
 (217)
 (92)
B 
 2,042 
 1,636 
 3,553 
 3,500 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 266
Annual Report 
2023
243
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
Others 
Balances with government authorities :
 
 Goods and services tax input credit 
 328 
 500 
 5,466 
 7,363 
Prepayments 
 263 
 133 
 511 
 1,215 
Advances to related parties* 
(Refer note 25) 
 - 
 - 
 718 
 1,429 
C 
 591 
 633 
 6,695 
 10,007 
Total (A+B+C)  
 3,198 
 3,031 
 10,248 
 13,507 
9. Other assets (Contd..)
*No advances are recoverable from directors or other officers of the Company either severally or jointly 
with any other person. Nor any advance are recoverable from firms or private companies respectively 
in which any director is a partner, a director or a member, except as disclosed in note 25.
10(a). Cash and cash equivalents
As at  
March 31, 2023 
As at  
March 31, 2022
Cash on hand  
 * 
 * 
Balance with banks 
- 
On current accounts 
 25,909 
 10,664 
- 
Deposits with original maturity for less than 3 months 
 4,120 
 - 
 30,029 
 10,664 
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
Notes :
(a) There are no repatriation restrictions with regard to cash and cash equivalents as at the end of 
the reporting period and prior period.
(b) Fixed deposits amounting to INR 2,081 (March 31, 2022: INR 32) included in note 7(d) and 10(b) 
are marked under lien by banks for providing bank overdraft, working capital demand loan and 
issuing bank guarantees under various contracts.
(c) Balance with banks on current accounts includes balance of Initial Public Offer (IPO) proceeds of 
INR 10,007 (March 31, 2022: 736) which will be utilised as stated in the prospectus for IPO. 
(d) Fixed deposits amounting to INR 31,000 (March 31, 2022: 70,900) included in note 7(d) and 10(b) 
will be utilised as stated in the prospectus for IPO.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 267
Annual Report 
2023
244
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
10(b). Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
As at  
March 31, 2023 
As at  
March 31, 2022
Deposits with original maturity of more than 3 months but 
less than 12 months (Refer footnote (b) and (d) to note 10(a)) 
 15,700 
 16,901 
Deposits with original maturity for more than 12 months 
(Refer footnote (b) and (d) to note 10(a)) 
 17,392 
 15,341 
Other deposits with banks# 
 - 
 5,448 
 33,092 
 37,690 
 Number of 
Shares 
 Amount 
Authorised equity share capital
As at April 1, 2021
 104,106,600 
 1,041 
Increase/ (decrease) during the year
 - 
Adjustment for Sub-division of Equity Shares#
 936,959,400 
 - 
As at March 31, 2022
 1,041,066,000 
 1,041 
Increase/ (decrease) during the year
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2023
 1,041,066,000 
 1,041 
#Deposits with banks amounting to INR Nil (March 31, 2022 : 5,448) are held by banks as security 
against bank guarantees.
11 (a). Equity share capital
Terms/ rights attached to equity shares 
All the equity shares issued shall rank pari passu and have a par value of INR 1 per share. Each 
shareholder is eligible for one vote per share held only.
#Pursuant to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held 
on June 30, 2021, each equity share of face value of INR 10 per share was sub-divided into ten equity 
shares of face value of INR 1 per share, with effect from the record date, i.e., June 30, 2021.
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up shares
As at  
March 31, 2023 
As at  
March 31, 2022
633,788,217 equity shares of INR 1 each fully paid up 
(March 31, 2022 : 648,561,414 equity shares of INR 1 each 
fully paid up) 
 634 
 649 
Total issued, subscribed and fully paid-up share capital
 634 
 649 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 268
Annual Report 
2023
245
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Equity shares
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
 Number 
 Amount 
 Number 
 Amount 
Shares outstanding at the beginning of 
the year#
648,561,414 
 649 
60,260,013 
 605 
Shares issued during the year##
 - 
 - 
 38,646,058 
 39 
Shares issued during the year - ESOP
 793,549 
 1 
 4,627,616 
 5 
Adjustment for Sub-Division of Equity 
Shares
 - 
 - 
543,217,887 
 - 
Impact on derecognition of trust
 - 
 - 
 1,809,840 
 - 
Shares buy-back (Refer note 40)
(15,566,746)
 (16)
 - 
 - 
Shares outstanding at the end of the year
633,788,217 
 634 648,561,414 
 649 
Name of shareholder
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Number of 
Shares held  % holding 
Number of 
Shares held  % holding 
Antfin (Netherlands) Holding B.V. 
 158,080,740 
24.94%
 161,420,141 
24.89%
SVF India Holding (Cayman) Limited  
 81,610,229 
12.88%
 113,262,230 
17.46%
Mr.Vijay Shekhar Sharma 
 57,845,053 
9.13%
 57,673,032 
8.89%
SAIF III Mauritius Company Limited 
 68,735,489 
10.85%
 68,735,489 
10.60%
Alibaba.com Singapore E-Commerce 
Private Limited 
 - 
-
 40,631,822 
6.26%
11 (a). Equity share capital (Contd..)
a.	 Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of 
the reporting year
 
# Net of treasury shares, April 1, 2021: 222,391 of face value of INR 10 each, at nil cost through 
Paytm Associate Benefit Welfare Trust (formerly known as One97 Employee Welfare Trust)
 
## Shares issued during the year ended March 31, 2022 includes 41,407 shares of face value of 
INR 10 each issued out of treasury shares
b.	 Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
c.	 Shares reserved for issue under options
 
For details of shares reserved for issue under the employee stock options plan (ESOP) of the 
Company (refer note 24).

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 269
Annual Report 
2023
246
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
d.	 Aggregate number of bonus shares issued, shares bought back and share 
issued for consideration other than cash during the period of five years 
immediately preceding the reporting date:
 
The Company has issued 333,035 shares for consideration other than cash during the period 
of five years immediately preceding the reporting date. The Company has not issued bonus 
shares during the period of five years immediately preceding the reporting date. The Company 
has bought back 15,566,746 shares during the period of five years immediately preceding the 
reporting date. 
e.	 Shareholding of Promoters
11 (a). Equity share capital (Contd..)
Shares held by Promoters at the end of the year
% Change 
during the year
Promoter Name
No. of Shares % of total shares
Nil
Not Applicable
 
As of March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022, the Company is a professionally managed company 
and does not have an identifiable promoter in terms of the Companies Act, 2013. Accordingly, 
disclosures related to promoter shareholding is not applicable.
11 (b). Other equity
As at  
March 31, 2023 
As at  
March 31, 2022
1.	 Reserves and Surplus
 
Securities premium
 263,534 
 273,170 
 
Employee stock options outstanding account 
(ESOP Reserve)
 23,531 
 9,585 
 
Retained earnings
 (164,865)
 (146,253)
 
Capital Redemption Reserve
 16 
 - 
	
Total reserve and surplus (A)
 122,216 
 136,502 
	
(i)	Securities premium
 
 
Opening balance
 273,170 
 189,256 
 
 
Add: transferred from ESOP Reserve on exercise of 
stock options
 919 
 2,290 
 
 
Add: amount received on issue of shares
 6 
 83,023 
 
 
Add: exercise of share options
 * 
 2 
 
 
Less: amount utilised for share issue expenses
 - 
 (1,401)
 
 
Less: buy-back of equity shares (including transaction 
cost)
 (8,568)
 - 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 270
Annual Report 
2023
247
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
As at  
March 31, 2023 
As at  
March 31, 2022
 
 
Less: transfer on account of buy-back of equity shares
 (16)
 - 
 
 
Less: tax on buy-back of equity shares
 (1,977)
 - 
	
	
Balance at the end of the year
 263,534 
 273,170 
	
(ii)	 Employee stock options outstanding account 
(ESOP Reserve)
 
 
Opening balance
 9,585 
 3,822 
 
 
Add: share based payment expense
 13,799 
 7,498 
 
 
Add: share based payment for employees of group 
companies
 1,081 
 674 
 
 
Less: amount transferred to securities premium on 
exercise of stock options
 (919)
 (2,290)
 
 
Less: reversal on forfeiture of stock options
 (3)
 (17)
 
 
Less: adjustment on cancellation of ESOP
 (12)
 (102)
	
	
Balance at the end of the year
 23,531 
 9,585 
	
(iii) Retained earnings
 
 
Opening balance
 (146,253)
 (123,814)
 
 
Loss for the year
 (18,558)
 (23,251)
 
 
Less: remeasurement of post-employee benefit 
obligation
 (23)
 (18)
 
 
Add: transfer from employee stock options outstanding 
account
 3 
 17 
 
 
Add: adjustment on cancellation of ESOP
 12 
 102 
 
 
Add: other adjustments#
 (46)
 711 
	
	
Balance at the end of the year
 (164,865)
 (146,253)
	
(iv) Capital Redemption Reserve
 
 
Opening balance
 - 
 - 
 
 
Transfer on account of buyback of equity shares
 16 
 - 
 
 
Balance at the end of the year
 16 
 - 
2.	 Share application money pending allotment 
 
Opening balance
 * 
 2 
 
Less: exercise of share options
 * 
 (2)
 
Receipt of share application money (pending allotment)
 1 
 * 
	
Balance at the end of the year (B)
 1 
 * 
11 (b). Other equity (Contd..)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 271
Annual Report 
2023
248
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
As at  
March 31, 2023 
As at  
March 31, 2022
3.	 Other reserves- FVTOCI
 
Opening balance
 (26)
 (26)
 
Net change in fair value of equity instruments at FVTOCI
 - 
 - 
 
Transfer from FVTOCI to retained earning#
 42 
 - 
	
Balance at the end of the year (C) 
 16 
 (26)
	
Total other equity (A+B+C)
 122,233 
 136,476 
11 (b). Other equity (Contd..)
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
# Includes an amount of INR 42 (March 31, 2022:  Nil) on account of disposal of investment and 
INR 4 (March 31, 2022: INR 711) on settlement of incentive liability through Paytm Associate Benefit 
Welfare Trust (formerly known as One97 Employee Welfare Trust) 
Nature and purpose of reserves
(i)	Securities premium
 
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve is utilised in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act.
(ii) Employee stock options outstanding account (ESOP Reserve)
 
Employee stock options outstanding account is used to recognise the grant date fair value of 
options issued to employees under the One 97 Employee Stock Option Plan.
(iii) FVTOCI Reserve
 
The Company has elected to recognise changes in the fair values of the certain investments in 
equity instruments in other comprehensive income. These changes are accumulated within the 
FVTOCI reserve within equity. The Company transfers amounts from this reserve to retained 
earning when relevant equity securities are derecognised.
(iv) Capital Redemption Reserve
 
As per Companies Act, 2013, capital redemption reserve is created when company purchases 
its own shares out of free reserves or securities premium. A sum equal to the nominal value of 
the shares so purchased is transferred to capital redemption reserve. The reserve is utilised in 
accordance with the provisions of section 69 of the Companies Act, 2013.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 272
Annual Report 
2023
249
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
As at  
March 31, 2023 
As at  
March 31, 2022
Current 
Trade payables# 
 7,042 
 6,602 
Trade payables to related parties (Refer note 25) 
 747 
 426 
Trade payables to other parties (Refer note 34) 
 45 
 79 
 7,834 
 7,107 
 # Refer note 29 for MSMED disclosure. 
(i) Total Outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises 
 397 
 193 
(ii) Total Outstanding dues other than (i) above 
 7,437 
 6,914 
 7,834 
 7,107 
12. Provisions
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
Provision for employee benefits
Provision for gratuity (Refer note 26)
 450 
 235 
 - 
 - 
Provision for leave benefits*
 - 
 - 
 1,096 
 718 
Provision for LTIP
 83 
 - 
 297 
 - 
 533 
 235 
 1,393 
 718 
*The entire amount of the provision of INR 1,096 (March 31, 2022 : INR 718) is presented as current, 
since the company does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement for any of these obligations. 
However based on past experience, the company does not expect all employees to avail the full amount 
of accrued leave or require payment for such leave within the next 12 months. The amount not expected 
to be settled within next twelve months is INR 830 (March 31, 2022 : INR 545).
13(a) Trade payables	
Trade Payables ageing schedule for the year ended March 31, 2023
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
Dues Not due less than 
1 year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i) Undisputed - MSME
 40 
 260 
 78 
 1 
 * 
 1 
 380 
(ii) Undisputed - Others
 5,270 
 875 
 847 
 36 
 63 
 172 
 7,263 
(iii) Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 * 
 3 
 * 
 1 
 13 
 17 
(iv) Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 4 
 66 
 11 
 16 
 77 
 174 
Total
 5,310 
 1,139 
 994 
 48 
 80 
 263 
 7,834 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 273
Annual Report 
2023
250
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
13(a) Trade payables	 (Contd..)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
Dues Not due less than 
1 year 1-2 years   2-3 years  More than 
3 years Total 
(i) Undisputed - MSME
 * 
 60 
 110 
 5 
 * 
 * 
 175 
(ii) Undisputed - Others
 5,552 
 372 
 674 
 39 
 61 
 133 
 6,831 
(iii) Disputed dues – 
MSME
 - 
 10 
 2 
 5 
 1 
 * 
 18 
(iv) Disputed dues - 
Others
 - 
 - 
 5 
 9 
 36 
 33 
 83 
Total
 5,552 
 442 
 791 
 58 
 98 
 166 
 7,107 
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the company
13(b) Other financial liabilities
As at  
March 31, 2023 
As at  
March 31, 2022
Current
Payable to merchants* 
 9,851 
 3,523 
Payable on purchase of fixed assets
 651 
 412 
Payable on purchase of fixed assets- related parties (Refer 
note 25)
 12 
 12 
Employee benefits payable
 1,243 
 1,104 
Other amount received from customers
 1,336 
 1,697 
Other amount received from customers- related parties 
(Refer note 25)
 - 
 1 
Others
 372 
 435 
Others- related parties (Refer note 25)
 60 
 124 
 13,525 
 7,308 
*The Company uses a Nodal Account to receive money through debit/credit card and net banking 
transactions towards all transactions occuring on its portal, as well as to settle the respective 
merchants. The amounts collected but yet to be transferred to merchants are netted off with nodal 
account having balance of INR 8,533 (March 31, 2022 : INR 9,942). Gross payable to merchant 
includes payable to related parties (Refer note 25) INR 2,681 (March 31, 2022 : INR 1,591).
Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities:
(i) Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and generally carry credit period of 30 days.
 
Note: All financial liabilities are carried at amortized cost
Trade Payables ageing schedule for the year ended March 31, 2022

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 274
Annual Report 
2023
251
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Contract liabilities recognized as revenue during the year
 936 
 1,053 
 936 
 1,053 
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Revenue from contracts with customers
Sale of services 
 59,418 
 38,807 
Other operating revenue
Incentive income# 
 859 
 117 
 60,277 
 38,924 
As at  
March 31, 2023 
As at  
March 31, 2022
Other payable - related parties (Refer note 25)
 - 
 30 
Statutory dues payable:
 
Tax deducted at source payable
 864 
 1,014 
 
GST Payable
 2,395 
 2,620 
 
Tax collected at source payable
 22 
 98 
 
Provident fund payable
 85 
 51 
 
Other statutory dues
 60 
 52 
 3,426 
 3,865 
14 (a) Other current liabilities
14 (b) Contract liabilities
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
Contract liabilities
 2,367 
 3,165 
 2,353 
 2,001 
 2,367 
 3,165 
 2,353 
 2,001 
(i) For related party balances, Refer note 25.
Revenue recognized in relation to carried forward contract liabilities
15. Revenue from operations
#There are no unfulfilled conditions or other contingencies attached to these grants.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 275
Annual Report 
2023
252
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
15. Revenue from operations (Contd.)
Disaggregated details of revenue:
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
(i) Nature of services  
	
Payment and financial services 
 47,611 
 29,297 
 
 
Payments services to Consumers 
 14,376 
 11,637 
 
 
Payments services to Merchants 
 18,372 
 13,662 
 
 
Others (including Financial Services) 
 14,863 
 3,998 
	
Commerce and cloud services 
 11,807 
 9,510 
 
 
Commerce
 4,497 
 3,467 
 
 
Cloud 
 7,310 
 6,043 
 59,418 
 38,807 
(ii) Timing of revenue recognition 
 
Services provided at a point in time 
 53,739 
 36,567 
 
Services provided over a period of time 
 5,679 
 2,240 
 59,418 
 38,807 
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Interest income
- on bank deposits 
 2,509 
 2,170 
- Interest on Inter corporate loans - measured at amortized 
cost 
 43 
 63 
- Interest Income on unwinding of discount - financial 
assets measured at amortized cost 
 582 
 182 
- Interest Income on debentures -measured at amortized 
cost 
 - 
 70 
- Interest income on security deposit 
 30 
 85 
Fair value gain on financial instruments measured at FVTPL 
(net)
 532 
 223 
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (net)
 130 
 7 
Liabilities no longer required written back
 85 
 7 
Exchange differences (net)
 41 
 - 
Miscellanous Income
 42 
 23 
 3,994 
 2,830 
16. Other income

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 276
Annual Report 
2023
253
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Salaries, bonus and incentives
 17,256 
 10,575 
Contribution to provident and other funds
 507 
 240 
Share based payment expenses (Refer note 24)
 13,799 
 7,498 
Leave Encashment Expense
 581 
 476 
Gratuity expenses (Refer note 26)
 185 
 124 
Staff welfare expenses
 256 
 159 
 32,584 
 19,072 
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 
(Refer note 3(a))
 4,237 
 2,041 
Depreciation on right-of-use-assets# (Refer note 3(b))
 388 
 194 
Amortization of intangible assets (Refer note 4)
 71 
 47 
 4,696 
 2,282 
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Interest
- Interest and finance charges on lease liabilities (Refer 
note 3(b))
 185 
 75 
- on borrowings at amortised cost
 - 
 293 
- on late deposit of statutory dues
 3 
 * 
- on others
 31 
 13 
 219 
 381 
17. Employee benefits expense
18. Depreciation and amortization expense
#This amount is net of cross charge of INR Nil (March 31, 2022 : INR 7) (Refer note 3(b))
19. Finance costs
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 277
Annual Report 
2023
254
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
20. Other expenses
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Connectivity and content fees
 2,924 
 2,126 
Legal and professional fees (Refer note (ii) below)
 802 
 1,656 
Subcontract expenses
 3,046 
 3,856 
Contest, ticketing and FASTag expenses
 544 
 364 
Logistic, deployment & collection cost
 1,574 
 656 
Provision for advances
 125 
 40 
Loss allowance for financial assets
 795 
 697 
Trade receivables/ advance written off
 84 
 201 
Repair and maintenance
 759 
 325 
Insurance
 157 
 83 
Rates and taxes
 60 
 103 
Travelling and conveyance
 316 
 88 
Bank charges
 (2)
 19 
Communication costs
 36 
 19 
Payment to auditors (Refer note (i) below)
 18 
 32 
Rent (Refer note 28)
 5 
 42 
Goods and services tax expense off
 50 
 17 
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets written off 
 12 
 10 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure 
(Refer note 37)
 26 
 14 
Exchange differences (net)
 - 
 6 
Miscellaneous expenses
 168 
 194 
 11,499 
 10,548 
(i)	Payment to Auditors 
 
As auditors
 
- Audit fee
 9 
 8 
 
- Tax audit fee
 - 
 * 
 
- Limited Review
 7 
 3 
In other capacity
- Other Services (IPO related)
 - 
 40 
- Reimbursement of expenses
 1 
 2 
- Other Services (Certification fees)
 2 
 2 
Other adjustments**
 (1)
 (23)
 18 
 32 
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 278
Annual Report 
2023
255
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
20. Other expenses (Contd..)
**During the year ended March 31, 2023 other adjustments relates to audit fee paid on buyback 
certification, which has been adjusted from securities premium. During the year ended March 31, 2022 
other adjustments relates to amount recoverable from selling shareholders pursuant to agreement 
with selling shareholders for sharing of IPO expenses. 
(ii)	Legal and professional fees includes
 
a) an amount of INR 74 (March 31, 2022 : INR 59) as remuneration to non-executive and 
independent directors.
 
b) an amount of INR 21 (March 31, 2022 : INR 49) as payment to a Law firm in which one of the 
non-executive and independent director is interested. Further, payment of INR 4 (March 31, 
2022: INR 1) to the said firm which is in the nature of share issue expenses/ share buy-back 
expenses (transaction cost) has been adjusted with securities premium account.
21. Exceptional items
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Provision for impairment of investments in associates and 
subsidiaries
 (630)
 (441)
 (630)
 (441)
a) The Company basis its assessment of future business projections of its subsidiaries i.e. Orbgen 
Technologies Private Limited, Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited, Wasteland Entertainment 
Private Limited and Little Internet Private Limited has recognized provision for impairment in the 
carrying value of its investments of INR 104, INR 525, INR Nil and INR 1 (March 31, 2022 : INR 
132, INR Nil, INR 200 and INR Nil), respectively, which has been shown as exceptional item in the 
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2023. During current and 
previous year, the impairment loss for these investments was based on the equity value calculated 
based on cash flow projections with the business plan used for impairment testing using discounted 
cash flow method. The management has computed equity value based on discount rate of 22.5% 
(March 31, 2022: 22.5%) and terminal growth rate used in extrapolating cash flows beyond the 
planning period of 2.45 (March 31, 2022: 2.45) times of revenue of the terminal year.
b) The Company basis its assessment of future business projections of its associate, Eatgood 
Technologies Private Limited, has recognized provision of INR Nil (March 31, 2022: INR 30) 
for impairment in the carrying value of its investment. During current and previous year, the 
management has computed equity value for the investment based on discount rate of 17.24% 
(March 31, 2022: 17.24%) and terminal growth rate used in extrapolating cash flows is 3.8% (March 
31, 2022: 3.8%).

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 279
Annual Report 
2023
256
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
c) During the previous year, the Company had subscribed to optionally convertible debentures of 
Nearbuy India Private Limited (subsidiary of Little Internet Private Limited). The Company has the 
rights of conversion into a fixed number of equity shares. The investment has been fair valued 
through profit and loss (FVTPL) since it does not meet the SPPI test. The difference in fair value 
of INR 79 has been taken as deemed investment in Little Internet Private Limited. The Company 
basis its assessment of future business projections has recognized an impairment of INR 79.
22. Earnings per shares (EPS)
Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit/ (loss) for the year attributable to equity 
holders of the Company by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year. 
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit/ (loss) attributable to equity holders of 
the Company by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year plus 
the weighted average number of equity shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive 
potential equity shares into equity shares.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted EPS computations:
21. Exceptional items (Contd..)
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Loss attributable to equity holders for basic and diluted 
earnings
 (18,558)
 (23,251)
Weighted average number of equity shares for basic and 
diluted EPS#
 645,793,553 
 621,763,714 
Earnings per share (INR per share of INR 1 each)
Basic
 (29)
 (37)
Diluted*
 (29)
 (37)
* In view of losses during the current year and previous year, the options which are anti-dilutive 
have been ignored in the calculation of diluted earnings per share. Accordingly, there is no variation 
between basic and diluted earnings per share.
# Pursuant to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held 
on June 30, 2021, each equity share of face value of INR 10 per share was sub-divided into ten equity 
shares of face value of INR 1 per share, with effect from record date, i.e., June 30, 2021.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 280
Annual Report 
2023
257
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
23. Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
The preparation of the Company’s Standalone Financial Statements requires management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, 
assets and liabilities, and the accompanying disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. 
Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material 
adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
Estimates and assumptions	
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the 
reporting date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities within the next 12 months, are described below. 
Deferred taxes
Deferred tax assets can be recognised for deductible temporary differences (including unused 
tax losses) only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which 
the deductible temporary difference can be utilised. As the Company is yet to generate operating 
profits, Management has assessed that as at March 31, 2023 it is not probable that such deferred 
tax assets can be realised in excess of available taxable temporary differences. Management re-
assesses unrecognised deferred tax assets at each reporting date and recognises to the extent that 
it has become probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. 
For details about deferred tax assets, refer note 27.
During FY 2019-20 (AY 2020-21) a shareholder of the Company holding 30.33% of shares of the 
Company had transferred its shareholding to its group company (both entities being 100% subsidiaries 
of the same ultimate parent entity). Based on advice from the Company's tax experts, Management 
has assessed that a mere change in shareholding within the same group will not be an affirmative 
position to say that the shareholding has been changed. Further, since the shares of the Company 
carrying not less than fifty-one percent of the voting power were beneficially held by persons, i.e. 
ultimate holding company of the aforesaid entities, who beneficially held shares of the company 
carrying not less than fifty-one percent of the voting power on the last day of the year or years in 
which the loss was incurred, the Company shall be entitled to carry forward and set off these losses 
against the taxable income of future years in accordance with the provisions of Section 79 of the 
Income Tax Act, 1961. (refer note 27)
Defined benefit plans (gratuity benefits)
The cost of the defined benefit gratuity plan and the present value of the gratuity obligation are 
determined using actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions that 
may differ from actual developments in the future. These include the determination of the discount 
rate, future salary increases and mortality rates. Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 281
Annual Report 
2023
258
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
its long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. 
All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date.
In determining the appropriate discount rate for plans operated in India, the management considers the 
interest rates of government bonds in India. The mortality rate is based on publicly available mortality 
tables for India. The mortality tables tend to change only at interval in response to demographic 
changes. Future salary increases and gratuity increases are based on expected future inflation rates. 
For further details about gratuity obligations, refer note 26.
Fair value measurement of financial instruments
When the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the standalone balance 
sheet cannot be measured based on quoted prices in active markets, their fair value is measured 
using valuation techniques including the DCF model, Price of Recent Investment (PORI) method 
and Comparable Company Multiples (CCM) method. The inputs to these models are taken from 
observable markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required 
in establishing fair values. For further details about Fair value measurement, refer note 30.
Impairment of financial assets
The Company assesses on a forward looking basis the expected credit risk associated with its assets 
carried at amortised cost. The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been 
a significant increase in credit risk. Note 31 details how the Company determines whether there has 
been a significant increase in credit risk. 
Impairment reviews
Investments in subsidiaries and associates are tested for impairment at-least on an annual basis 
or when events that occur / changes in circumstances indicate that the recoverable amount is less 
than its carrying value. In calculating the value in use, the Company is required to make judgements, 
estimates and assumptions inter-alia concerning the growth in EBITDA, long-term growth rates; 
discount rates to reflect the risks involved. For details about impairment reviews, refer note 21.
Incentives	
The Company provides incentives to users in various forms including cash backs to promote our 
platform. Incentives to users to whom the Company has a performance obligation is recorded as a 
reduction of revenue to the extent of the revenue earned. For the incentives to other transacting 
users to whom the Company has no performance obligation, management is required to determine 
whether the incentives are in substance a payment on behalf of the merchants and should therefore 
be recorded as a reduction of revenue or as marketing and promotional expenses. Some of the factors 
23. Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
(Contd..)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 282
Annual Report 
2023
259
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
23. Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
(Contd..)
considered in management’s evaluation of such incentives being payments on behalf of  merchants 
include whether the incentives are given at the Company’s discretion, contractual agreements with 
the merchants, business strategy and objectives and design of the incentive program(s), etc
24. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP)
(A) One97 Employees Stock Option Scheme 2019 (ESOP 2019 Scheme)
 
The Company introduced One97 Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019 for the benefit of 
employees as approved by the Board of Directors in the meeting held on September 4, 2019 
and by shareholders in the Annual General Meeting held on September 30, 2019 wherein the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee has been authorized to grant share-based stock 
options to eligible employees of the Company, its subsidiaries and associates under the ESOP 
2019 Scheme. The maximum number of Employee Stock Options under ESOP 2019 Scheme shall 
not exceed 46,455,832* (Refer Note 1 & 2 below) equity shares. ESOPs are generally granted to 
high performing employees. These Stock Options will generally vest between a minimum of one 
to a maximum of five years from the grant date subject to achievement of certain performance 
criteria e.g. impact made on overall business, track record of displaying Paytm values, etc.
 
*After considering impact of share sub division
	
Significant changes/modifications in the ESOP 2019 Scheme during FY 2021-
22 & FY 2022-23
	
1) Pursuant to the approval of Shareholders of the Company at the Annual General Meeting held 
on June 30, 2021, each equity share of the Company having face value of INR 10 each was 
sub divided into ten equity shares of face value of INR 1 per share with effect from June 30, 
2021. Accordingly, all outstanding Employee Stock Options and remaining Employee Stock 
Option Pool have also been sub divided in the similar proportion.
	
2) Shareholders of the Company in the Extra Ordinary General Meeting held on September 2, 
2021 has approved increase in ESOP Pool by adding 37,000,000 options. Accordingly, total 
ESOP Pool for ESOP 2019 Scheme stands at 46,455,832.
 
3) Post Initial Public Offering of the Company’s share, the scheme has been ratified on February 19, 
2022 by the shareholders through postal ballot to comply with SEBI (SBEB & SE) Regulations. 
Further, Scheme has also been extended to cover the employees of group companies.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 283
Annual Report 
2023
260
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
(B) One97 Employees Stock Option Scheme 2008 (ESOP 2008 Scheme)
 
The Company introduced One 97 Employee Stock Option 2008 Scheme for the benefit of employees 
as approved by the Board of Directors in the meeting held on September 8, 2008 and by the 
members in the Extra Ordinary General Meeting held on October 22, 2008 wherein Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee has authorized to grant share-based stock options to eligible 
employees of the Company and its subsidiaries under the ESOP 2008 Scheme. The maximum 
number of Employee Stock Options under ESOP 2008 Scheme shall not exceed 14,638,448* 
equity shares. These instruments will generally vest between a minimum of one to a maximum 
of four years from the grant date.
 
*After considering impact of share sub division
(C)Details about employee stock options granted, outstanding and other 
information:
 
1) During the year ended March 31, 2023, the Company has granted 12,385,196 (March 31, 
2022- 27,428,285) Employee Stock Options under ESOP 2019 Scheme to Eligible Employees.
 
 
The grant made during FY 2021-22 includes grant of 21,000,000 Employee Stock Options 
to Managing Director and CEO of the Company which is subject to achievement of certain 
milestones and will vest equally in 4 tranches, having minimum vesting period of 24 months, 
36 months, 48 months and 60 months for each tranche respectively.
 
2) The total options outstanding as at March 31, 2023 under ESOP 2008 Scheme are 250,797 
and ESOP 2019 Scheme are 37,457,727 (March 31, 2022 under ESOP 2008 Scheme – 585,450 
and ESOP 2019 Scheme – 29,317,167). Scheme-wise options outstanding are as under:
	
	
ESOP 2008 Scheme
24. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
Grant Date
Number of Options 
outstanding*
Number of Options 
outstanding*
Exercise Price*
March  31, 2023
March  31, 2022
December 31, 2008
6,405
6,425
5
April 1, 2016
11,907
31,331
9
October 1, 2016
834
1,453
9
April 1, 2017
-
3,084
9
October 1, 2017
19,000
21,260
9
April 1, 2018
121,420
363,677
9
July 1, 2018
83,433
136,530
9
October 1, 2018
6,408
12,387
9
April 1, 2019
1,390
9,303
9
Total
250,797
585,450
 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 284
Annual Report 
2023
261
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
24. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
Grant Date
Number of Options 
outstanding*
Number of Options 
outstanding*
Exercise Price*
March  31, 2023
March  31, 2022
April 1, 2019
172,991
268,031
9
October 1, 2019
121,533
179,728
9
April 1, 2020
135,343
218,797
9
July 1, 2020
100,094
127,428
9
October 1, 2020
1,585,497
2,194,862
9
April 1, 2021
391,588
586,210
9
October 1, 2021
3,150,449
4,206,273
9
October 1, 2021
21,000,000
21,000,000
9
October 1, 2021
38,584
385,838
1900
October 8, 2021
150,000
150,000
9
April 1, 2022
2,309,166
-
9
May 1, 2022
              3,298,184
-
9
August 1, 2022
1,057,294
-
9
November 1, 2022
3,226,112
-
9
January 31, 2023
720,892
-
9
Total
            37,457,727
29,317,167
 
	
	
ESOP 2019 Scheme
 
 
*After considering impact of share sub division
	
3)	 Movement during the year ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022:
 
 
The following table provides details about the number and weighted average exercise prices 
(WAEP) of, and movements in, employee stock options during the year:
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2023*
Year ended March 31, 2022*
No of Options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price
No of Options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price
ESOP 2008 Scheme
 
 
 
 
Outstanding at the 
beginning
585,450 
8.96 
5,362,100 
10.97 
Granted during the year
- 
- 
- 
- 
Exercised during the year
301,386
9.00 
4,343,960 
11.43 
Forfeited during the year
33,267 
9.00 
350,020 
8.99 
Cancelled during the year
- 
- 
82,670 
9.00 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 285
Annual Report 
2023
262
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2023*
Year ended March 31, 2022*
No of Options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price
No of Options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price
Outstanding at the end of 
the year
250,797 
8.90 
585,450 
8.96 
Vested options 
outstanding at the end of 
the year (exercisable)
250,797 
8.90
434,923 
8.96
24. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2023*
Year ended March 31, 2022*
No of Options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price
No of Options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price
ESOP 2019 Scheme
 
 
 
 
Outstanding at the 
beginning
29,317,167 
33.89 
4,669,180 
9.00 
Granted during the year
12,385,196 
9.00 
27,428,285 
35.60 
Exercised during the year
572,965 
9.00 
576,261 
9.00 
Forfeited during the year
3,651,172 
188.85 
2,150,327 
9.00 
Cancelled during the year
20,499 
9.00 
53,710 
9.00 
Outstanding at the end of 
the year
37,457,727 
10.95 
29,317,167 
33.89 
Vested options 
outstanding at the end of 
the year (exercisable)
1,013,089
81.02 
291,732
9.00 
Particulars
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
ESOP 
2019 Plan
ESOP 
2008 Plan
ESOP 
2019 Plan
ESOP 
2008 Plan
Weighted Avg. share price of options 
exercised on the date of exercise 
(INR per share)
586.54
602.94
1,411.82
1,646.04
 
 
*After considering impact of share sub division
	
4)	 Details of Weighted average share price of options exercised on the date of exercise are as 
follows:

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 286
Annual Report 
2023
263
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
24. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
Particulars
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
ESOP 
2019 Plan
ESOP 
2008 Plan
ESOP 
2019 Plan
ESOP 
2008 Plan
Weighted Avg. remaining life for the options 
outstanding at the end of the year (in 
years)
2.37
0.08
3.14
0.16
	
5)	 Details of Weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding 
are as follows: 
	
6)	 Expense recognized for employee services received during the year are as below:
Particulars
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Expense arising from equity-settled share-based 
payment transactions (refer note 17)
13,799
7,498
	
7)	 Share based payment for employees of subsidiaries & associates during the year are as 
below:
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Investment (ESOP issued to employees of subsidiaries 
& Associates) 
804
674
Reimbursement of ESOP Cost (For ESOPs granted to 
employees of certain subsidiaries & associates)#
277
-
 
 
# During FY 2022-23, the Company has entered into recharge agreement with certain subsidiaries 
and associates effective December 1, 2022 for the share based payment arrangements.
 
 
During FY 2022-23, the Company has cancelled 20,499 outstanding unvested employee stock 
options. This cancellation of unvested employee stock options resulted into an accelerated 
share based payment expense of INR 12 (included in above charge) in the Standalone Statement 
of Profit and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2023.
 
 
During FY 2021-22, the Company had cancelled 67,550* outstanding unvested employee 
stock options and 68,830* outstanding vested employee stock options. This cancellation of 
unvested employee stock options resulted into an accelerated share based payment expense 
of INR 39 (included in above charge) in the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss for the 
year ended March 31, 2022.
 
 
*After considering impact of share sub division

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 287
Annual Report 
2023
264
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
 
Details of stock options granted under the One 97 ESOP 2019 Scheme during the year ended 
on March 31, 2023 (computed using Discounted Cash Flow, OPM & Black-Scholes model) are 
as under:
24. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
Particulars
Grant Date
April 
1, 2022
May 
1, 2022
August 
1, 2022
November 
1, 2022
January 
31, 2023
Share Price (INR per share)
           571 
582
744
643
531
Fair Value of Options Granted 
(INR per option)
564
574
737
636
524
Weighted Avg. Exercise Price 
(INR per share)
9
9
9
9
9
Vesting Period (in years)
5
5
5
5
5
Dividend Yield (%)
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Expected Life (in years)
1.04 - 5.04 1.04 - 5.04 1.04 - 5.04 1.04 - 5.04 1.04 - 5.04
Risk free interest rate (%)
4.60 - 
6.40
4.90 - 
6.90
6.30 - 7.10 7.00 - 7.50 7.05 - 7.37
Annualized Volatility (%)
46.80 – 
56.00
47.40 - 
56.20
48.40 - 
54.10
48.80 - 
56.80
48.70 - 
54.90
Particulars
Grant Date
April 
1, 2021*
October 
1, 2021
October 
1, 2021
October 
1, 2021**
October 
8, 2021
October 
8, 2021
Share Price (INR per share)
1,657 
1,891 
1,891 
1,891 
1,891 
1,891 
Fair Value of Options Granted 
(INR per option)
1,651
1,883
1,027
1,884
1,883
1,882
Weighted Avg. Exercise Price 
(INR per share)
9
9
1900
9
9
9
Vesting Period (in years)
5
5
5
5
5
1
Dividend Yield (%)
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Expected Life (in years)
3.50 - 
7.50
1.04 - 
5.04
3.50 - 
7.50
2.88 - 
5.04
1.04 - 
5.04
1.04
Risk free interest rate (%)
5.30 - 
6.40
4.00 - 
5.90
5.30 - 
6.40
4.90 - 
5.90
4.00 - 
6.00
4.00 
Annualized Volatility (%)
45.00 - 
55.30
40.30 - 
51.60
43.20 - 
56.30
44.10 - 
56.20
40.20 - 
51.60
40.20 
 
 
Details of stock options granted under the One 97 ESOP 2019 Scheme during the year ended 
on March 31, 2022 (computed using Discounted Cash Flow, OPM & Black-Scholes model) are 
as under:
 
 
*After considering impact of share sub division
 
 
** Grant of options to Managing Director & CEO

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 288
Annual Report 
2023
265
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
24. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
Notes:
1. Weighted average share price is based on the value of Equity Shares arrived at by using Discounted 
Cash Flow Method, OPM Method or Backsolve method and share prices based on secondary 
transactions, where available.
2. Dividend yield is considered zero, as no dividend payout is expected in the foreseeable future.
3. Risk free return is based on the yield to maturity of Indian treasury securities, with a maturity 
corresponding to the expected term of ESOP.
4. Annualized volatility is based on the median weekly volatility of selected comparable companies 
for a time period commensurate with the expected term.
25. Related party transactions
A.	Entities over which company exercise control
Name
Country of 
Incorporation
Ownership interest held
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022
Indian Subsidiaries
One 97 Communications India Limited 
India
100.00%
100.00%
Paytm Entertainment Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
Paytm Money Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private 
Limited###
India
66.34%
66.34%
Urja Money Private Limited##
India
83.34%
83.34%
Little Internet Private Limited
India
62.53%
62.53%
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
Paytm Services Private Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
Paytm Payments Services Limited 
India
100.00%
100.00%
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
Foreign Subsidiaries
One97 Communications Nigeria Limited
Nigeria
100.00%
100.00%
One97 Communications FZ-LLC
Dubai
100.00%
100.00%
One97 Communications Singapore Private 
Limited#
Singapore
100.00%
100.00%
One97 USA Inc.
USA
100.00%
100.00%

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 289
Annual Report 
2023
266
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Name
Country of 
Incorporation
Ownership interest held
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022
Subsidiaries of Subsidiaries
One97 Communications Rwanda Private 
Limited
Rwanda
100.00%
100.00%
One97 Communications Tanzania Private 
Limited
Tanzania
100.00%
100.00%
One97 Communications Bangladesh 
Private Limited
Bangladesh
70.00%
70.00%
One97 Uganda Limited
Uganda
100.00%
100.00%
One97 Ivory Coast SA
Ivory Coast
100.00%
100.00%
One97 Benin SA
Benin
100.00%
100.00%
Paytm Labs Inc.
Canada
100.00%
100.00%
One97 Communications Malaysia Sdn. 
Bdn
Malaysia
100.00%
100.00%
Nearbuy India Private Limited
India
62.53%
62.53%
Xceed IT Solution Private Limited
India
66.34%
66.34%
One Nine Seven Communication Nepal 
Private Limited
Nepal
100.00%
100.00%
One Nine Seven Digital Solutions Limited
Kenya
100.00%
100.00%
Fincollect Services Private Limited
India
83.34%
83.34%
One Nine Seven Communications Saudi 
Arabia For Communication and Information 
Technology 
Saudi Arabia
100.00%
100.00%
Trust (till June 30, 2021)
Paytm Associate Benefit Welfare Trust 
(formerly known as One97 Employee 
Welfare Trust)**
India
 - 
 - 
 
** Consolidated till June 30, 2021 (upto date of loss of control)
 
# including 43.75% (March 31, 2022: 43.75%) held through One 97 Communications India Limited
 
## including 15.87% (March 31, 2022: 15.87%) held through Admirable Software Limited
 
### including 0.63% (March 31, 2022: 0.63%) held through Admirable Software Limited
25. Related party transactions (Contd..)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 290
Annual Report 
2023
267
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Name
Country of 
incorporation
Ownership interest held
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022
First Games Technology Private Limited 
(formerly known as Paytm First Games 
Private Limited)*
India
55.00%
55.00%
First Games Singapore Pte. Ltd. (formerly 
known as Paytm First Games Singapore 
Pte. Ltd.) (wholly owned subsidiary of 
First Games Technology Private Limited 
(formerly known as Paytm First Games 
Private Limited))
Singapore
55.00%
55.00%
Paytm Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd. 
(wholly owned subsidiary of First Games 
Technology Private Limited (formerly 
known as Paytm First Games Private 
Limited))
China
55.00%
55.00%
Name
Country of 
incorporation
Ownership interest held
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022
Paytm Payments Bank Limited#
India
49.00%
49.00%
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited 
(Formerly known as QoRQL Private 
Limited)
India
32.45%
32.45%
Foster Payment Networks Private Limited^ 
(w.e.f March 26, 2021) (subsidiary of PFSL)
India
48.80%
48.80%
Paytm General Insurance Limited
India
49.00%
49.00%
Paytm Life Insurance Limited
India
49.00%
49.00%
Paytm Financials Services Limited (PFSL)
India
48.78%
48.78%
Admirable Software Limited (w.e.f. August 
17, 2021) (subsidiary of PFSL)
India
48.78%
48.78%
B.	Joint Venture of Paytm Entertainment Limited (Wholly owned Subsidiary of 
One 97 Communications Limited)
25. Related party transactions (Contd..)
 
* The entity is into business of online gaming. It is a strategic investment which utilises group's 
knowledge and expertise in online space.
C.	Entities over which company exercise significant influence

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 291
Annual Report 
2023
268
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Name
Country of 
incorporation
Ownership interest held
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited 
India
26.57%
26.57%
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited 
India
23.24%
23.24%
Socomo Technologies Private Limited
India
12.75%
12.75%
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma
Chairman, Managing Director and CEO
Mr. Madhur Deora
Group Chief Financial Officer (w.e.f. October 9, 2020 and till 
December 31, 2021), Chief Financial Officer (w.e.f. January 1, 
2022) and Whole-time Director (Executive Director, President & 
Group Chief Financial Officer) (w.e.f. May 20, 2022)
Mr. Vikas Garg
Chief Financial Officer (till December 31, 2021)
25. Related party transactions (Contd..)
 
# including 10% (March 31, 2022: 10%) held through One 97 Communications India Limited. As 
per Banking Regulation Act, 1949, voting rights in a banking Company are capped at 26% in case 
the investor holds more than 26% in the bank.
 
^ Including 4.90% (March 31, 2022: 4.90%) held through Paytm Payments Bank Limited.
D.	Key Management Personnel
E.	 Entities having significant influence over the Company
 
SAIF III Mauritius Company Limited
 
Elevation Capital V Limited (Formerly known as SAIF Partners India V Limited)
 
SAIF Partners India IV Limited
 
Elevation Capital V FII Holdings Limited
 
ANTFIN (Netherlands) Holding B.V.
 
Alipay Labs (Singapore) Pte Limited
 
SVF India Holdings (Cayman) Limited
 
SVF Panther (Cayman) Limited (till November 17, 2021)
 
Alibaba.com Singapore E-Commerce Private Limited (till November 17, 2021)
F.	 Relative of Key Management Personnel
 
Mr. Ajay Shekhar Sharma 
Brother of Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 292
Annual Report 
2023
269
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
25. Related party transactions (Contd..)
	
Details of transactions with related parties during the year ended 
March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022:-
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Rendering of services to related parties
One97 Communications FZ-LLC
 9 
 64 
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 2 
 3 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 7,089 
 6,379 
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 4,573 
 1,716 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 16 
 4 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 29 
 46 
Little Internet Private Limited
 - 
 * 
Urja Money Private Limited
 19 
 1 
Paytm Entertainment Limited
 * 
 21 
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 26 
 10 
Paytm Services Private Limited
 1 
 1 
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
 2 
 2 
One97 Communications Tanzania Private Limited
 54 
 37 
Paytm Money Limited
 169 
 95 
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 65 
 233 
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited
 5 
 3 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 - 
 * 
One97 Communications Malaysia Sdn. Bdn
 1 
 60 
One97 Communications Singapore Private Limited
 1 
 1 
Paytm Labs Inc.
 17 
 - 
One Nine Seven Digital Solutions Limited
 2 
 - 
One Nine Seven Communication Nepal Private Limited
 25 
 22 
 12,105 
 8,698 
Reimbursement of expenses incurred on behalf of 
related parties
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 152 
 751 
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
2
 1 
Paytm Money Limited
25
 33 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
15
 8 
Urja Money Private Limited
23
 * 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
5
 6 
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
7
 5 
Paytm Entertainment Limited
 - 
 * 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 293
Annual Report 
2023
270
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
138
 156 
Paytm General Insurance Limited
*
 * 
Paytm Labs Inc.
 4 
 17 
Paytm Services Private Limited
7
 3 
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 968 
 753 
One97 Communications Singapore Private Limited
 3 
 24 
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
9
 7 
Foster Payment Networks Private Limited
1
 - 
Paytm Life Insurance Limited
*
 - 
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited
*
 - 
Admirable Software Limited
*
 - 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
*
 - 
Little Internet Private Limited
*
 - 
One 97 Communications India Limited
*
 - 
 1,359 
 1,764 
Expenses reimbursed to related party
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 - 
 2 
Paytm Services Private Limited
 * 
 * 
Urja Money Private Limited
*
 2 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 - 
 1 
Fincollect Services Private Limited
*
 2 
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
 - 
 3 
Paytm Money Limited
 - 
 18 
 * 
 28 
Interest income earned from related parties
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 - 
 2 
Urja Money Private Limited
3
 3 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 - 
 21 
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
129
 74 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 - 
 * 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
34
 10 
Little Internet Private Limited
1
 1 
 167 
 111 
25. Related party transactions (Contd..)
 
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 294
Annual Report 
2023
271
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Interest income earned on Optionally Convertible 
Debentures ("OCD")  from related parties
Urja Money Private Limited
3
 2 
Admirable Software Limited
24
 11 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
1
 7 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
20
 - 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
6
 2 
 54 
 22 
Sale of Business (Refer note 38)
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 - 
 2,838 
 - 
 2,838 
Purchase of property, plant & equipment from related 
party
Paytm Money Limited
 * 
 4 
Alibaba.com Singapore E-Commerce Private Limited
 - 
 124 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 - 
 * 
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
 1 
 12 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 4 
 - 
 5 
 140 
Sale of property, plant & equipment to related parties
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 - 
 * 
Urja Money Private Limited
 - 
 1 
Paytm Money Limited
 2 
 - 
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
 * 
 * 
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 9 
 - 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 13 
 * 
 24 
 1 
Proceeds from sale of online payment aggregator 
business
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 568 
 - 
 568 
 - 
Services received from related parties
-	 Payment processing charges
 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 7,828 
 9,709 
 
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 4,857 
 2,751 
 12,685 
 12,460 
25. Related party transactions (Contd..)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 295
Annual Report 
2023
272
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
-	 Legal and professional fees
 
Paytm Labs Inc.
 314 
 765 
 314 
 765 
-	 General expenses**
 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 142 
 198 
 
Alipay Labs (Singapore) Pte Limited (Refer note (i) 
below) 
 1,666 
 1,459 
 
One97 Communications Bangladesh Private Limited
 - 
 * 
 
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited (Refer note (ii) 
below)
43
 101 
 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
384
 259 
 
Urja Money Private Limited
10
 24 
 
Paytm Entertainment Limited
1
 2 
 
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly 
known as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
4
 3 
 
Paytm Money Limited (Refer note (iv) below)
4
 47 
 
Fincollect Services Private Limited
776
 36 
 
Paytm Services Private Limited
 2,004 
 2,903 
 
Little Internet Private Limited
*
 2 
 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
1
 5 
 
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited (Refer 
note (iii) below)
71
 49 
 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 - 
 9 
 
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited
3
 16 
 
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 2 
 21 
 
One 97 Communications India Limited
 - 
 * 
 
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 (4)
 - 
 5,107 
 5,134 
(i) includes INR 1,660 (March 31, 2022: INR 1,451) pertaining to Software, cloud and data 
centre expenses.
(ii) includes INR Nil (March 31, 2022:INR 76) pertaining to Software, cloud and data centre 
expenses.
(iii) includes INR 42 (March 31, 2022: INR 26) pertaining to Software, cloud and data centre 
expenses.
(iv) includes INR Nil (March 31, 2022: INR 3) pertaining to Software, cloud and data centre 
expenses.
25. Related party transactions (Contd..)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 296
Annual Report 
2023
273
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Inter corporate loan given
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 - 
 1,613 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 - 
 284 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 - 
 20 
Urja Money Private Limited
 - 
 15 
 - 
 1,932 
Repayment of Inter Corporate Loan
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 471 
 - 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 - 
 20 
 471 
 20 
Investment in Optionally Convertible Debentures
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 30 
 30 
Urja Money Private Limited
 - 
 30 
Admirable Software Limited
 - 
 231 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 220 
 - 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 - 
 130 
 250 
 421 
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Investment in subsidiaries
Paytm Entertainment Limited (Fair value impact of inter 
corporate loan, refer note 7('c))
 - 
 296 
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 - 
 617 
 - 
 913 
Stock Options granted to employees of subsidiaries and 
associates
Paytm Entertainment Limited
 133 
 78 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 188 
 - 
One97 Communications Singapore Private Limited
 319 
 320 
Paytm Money Limited
 78 
 60 
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 12 
 7 
Urja Money Private Limited
 (3)
 7 
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 127 
 58 
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 54 
 41 
25. Related party transactions (Contd..)
 
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
 
** Includes other expenses and Software, cloud and data centre expenses

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 297
Annual Report 
2023
274
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
 25 
 (2)
Little Internet Private Limited
 1 
 - 
Paytm Services Private Limited
 (3)
 2 
One 97 Communications India Limited
 * 
 * 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 * 
 - 
Fincollect Services Private Limited
 * 
 - 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 149 
 104 
 1,081 
 675 
Recharge of ESOP cost to subsidiaries and associates
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 95 
 - 
One97 Communications Singapore Private Limited
 146 
 - 
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 36 
 - 
 277 
 - 
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Other financial assets 
(Other receivable for expenditure incurred)
One97 Benin SA
 5 
 5 
One97 Communications FZ-LLC
 - 
 * 
One97 Communications Nigeria Limited
 14 
 13 
One97 Communications Tanzania Private Limited
 44 
 26 
One97 Ivory Coast SA
 2 
 2 
One97 Communications Bangladesh Private Limited
 20 
 21 
Paytm Labs Inc.
 121 
 - 
Paytm Money Limited
 11 
 27 
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 164 
 223 
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 30 
 138 
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 168 
 264 
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited
 - 
 * 
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
 4 
 3 
One Nine Seven Communication Nepal Private Limited
 7 
 6 
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 3 
 3 
25. Related party transactions (Contd..)
 
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
	
Details of balances outstanding with related parties as at March 31, 2023 
and March 31, 2022:-

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 298
Annual Report 
2023
275
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
25. Related party transactions (Contd..)
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 * 
 - 
Admirable Software Limited
 * 
 - 
Urja Money Private Limited
 12 
 * 
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 45 
 12 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 * 
 1 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 8 
 5 
Paytm Services Private Limited
 33 
 51 
Paytm Entertainment Limited
 * 
 * 
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited
 * 
 * 
Little Internet Private Limited
 * 
 - 
One97 Communications Singapore Private Limited
 25 
 - 
 716 
 800 
Loss allowance for other receivable for expenditure 
incurred
One97 Communications Nigeria Limited
 13 
 10 
One97 Communications Bangladesh Private Limited
 20 
 20 
One97 Ivory Coast SA
 2 
 2 
One97 Benin SA
 5 
 5 
One Nine Seven Communication Nepal Private Limited
 4 
 - 
 44 
 37 
Amount receivable for sale of business 
(Other financial assets)
Paytm Payments Services Limited (Including accrued 
interest. Refer Note 7(d))
 1,951 
 2,346 
 1,951 
 2,346 
Other current assets
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 614 
 1,206 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 64 
 63 
Paytm Services Private Limited
 33 
 106 
Little Internet Private Limited
 - 
 2 
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 7 
 19 
One 97 Communications India Limited
 * 
 * 
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 - 
 31 
Paytm Money Limited
 - 
 1 
 718 
 1,429 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 299
Annual Report 
2023
276
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Inter corporate loan receivable (including accrued 
interest)
Little Internet Private Limited
 80 
 80 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 - 
 471 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 324 
 293 
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)#
 1,796 
 1,679 
Urja Money Private Limited
 29 
 26 
 2,229 
 2,549 
Allowance on Inter Corporate Loans
Little Internet Private Limited
 80 
 80 
Investments Optionally Convertible Debentures 
(including accrued interest)
Admirable Software Limited
 263 
 241 
Nearbuy India Private Limited**
 140 
 137 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 67 
 32 
Paytm Financial Services Limited***
 237 
 - 
Urja Money Private Limited
 34 
 32 
 741 
 442 
Amount receivable from payment gateway
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 14,944 
 15,334 
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 1,617 
 2,008 
 16,561 
 17,342 
25. Related party transactions (Contd..)
 
# Excluding Fair Value impact amounting to INR 289 (March 31, 2022: 317)
 
** Excluding Fair Value impact amounting to INR 140 (March 31, 2022: 79). Also refer note 21. 
 
*** Excluding Fair Value impact amounting to INR 72 (March 31, 2022: Nil)
 
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 300
Annual Report 
2023
277
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Trade receivables
One97 Communications Nigeria Limited
 190 
 174 
One97 Benin SA
 * 
 * 
One97 Communications Bangladesh Private Limited
 1 
 1 
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 - 
 * 
Paytm Money Limited
 18 
 25 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 625 
 1,201 
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 585 
 671 
Little Internet Private Limited
 * 
 * 
Urja Money Private Limited
 11 
 1 
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 3 
 5 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 2 
 5 
Paytm Services Private Limited
 1 
 * 
Fincollect Services Private Limited
 - 
 * 
One Nine Seven Communication Nepal Private Limited
 105 
 79 
One97 Communications Malaysia Sdn. Bdn
 62 
 115 
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 13 
 147 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 6 
 14 
Paytm Entertainment Limited
 * 
 * 
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
 - 
 1 
One 97 Communications India Limited
 * 
 - 
One97 Communications FZ-LLC
 9 
 59 
One97 Communications Tanzania Private Limited
 3 
 6 
One97 Communications Singapore Private Limited
 4 
 2 
One Nine Seven Digital Solutions Limited
 2 
 - 
 1,640 
 2,506 
Loss allowance for Trade receivables
One97 Communications Bangladesh Private Limited
 1 
 1 
One97 Benin SA
 * 
 * 
One97 Communications Nigeria Limited
 190 
 174 
One Nine Seven Communication Nepal Private Limited
 29 
 33 
One 97 Communication Malaysia Sdn. Bdn.
 - 
 3 
 220 
 211 
25. Related party transactions (Contd..)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 301
Annual Report 
2023
278
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Other financial assets
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 26 
 32 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 235 
 - 
Little Internet Private Limited
 * 
 * 
 261 
 32 
Trade payables (including accrued expenses) 
Alipay Labs (Singapore) Pte Limited
 150 
 77 
One 97 Communications India Limited
 * 
 * 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 20 
 51 
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 2 
 7 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 111 
 76 
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 * 
 3 
Paytm Services Private Limited
 56 
 * 
Urja Money Private Limited
 3 
 4 
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 64 
 - 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 - 
 1 
Fincollect Services Private Limited
 284 
 5 
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
 - 
 1 
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited
 * 
 3 
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 25 
 33 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 - 
 * 
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 24 
 22 
Paytm Entertainment Limited
 * 
 1 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 1 
 1 
Little Internet Private Limited
 * 
 2 
Paytm Labs Inc.
 7 
 114 
Admirable Software Limited
 * 
 - 
Paytm Money Limited
 * 
 24 
 747 
 426 
25. Related party transactions (Contd..)
 
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 302
Annual Report 
2023
279
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Other financial liabilities
-	 Payable to merchants
 
Socomo Technologies Private Limited
 - 
 * 
 
Little Internet Private Limited
 - 
 * 
 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 2,623 
 1,591 
 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 * 
 * 
 
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 - 
 * 
 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 58 
 * 
 
Urja Money Private Limited
 * 
 - 
 
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
 
Paytm Services Private Limited
 - 
 * 
 
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited
 * 
 * 
 2,681 
 1,591 
-	 Payable on purchase of fixed assets
 
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 12 
 12 
 12 
 12 
-	 Others
 
Little Internet Private Limited
 * 
 * 
 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 - 
 31 
 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 * 
 * 
 
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly 
known as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 58 
 92 
 
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 - 
 * 
 
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 1 
 1 
 
Socomo Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
 
Paytm Money Limited
 1 
 - 
 
One 97 Communications India Limited
 * 
 - 
 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 * 
 1 
 60 
 125 
Contract Liabilities
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited
 1 
 1 
Little Internet Private Limited
 - 
 * 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 - 
 * 
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 3 
 - 
25. Related party transactions (Contd..)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 303
Annual Report 
2023
280
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Paytm Money Limited
 * 
 - 
Paytm Services Private Limited
 - 
 26 
 4 
 27 
Other Current Liabilities
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 - 
 30 
 - 
 30 
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Short-term employee benefits 
(Salaries, bonus and incentives)
 84 
 103 
Post-employment benefits (Provident fund)
 * 
 * 
Employee share based payment
 11,243 
 5,670 
Total compensation
 11,327 
 5,773 
25. Related party transactions (Contd..)
	
Remuneration to KMP & Relative of Key Management Personnel
 
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
	
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
 
(i) The services provided and received from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those 
that prevail in arm’s length transactions. Outstanding balances at the year end are unsecured and 
interest free (except for inter corporate loan receivable and optionally convertible debentures) 
and settlement generally occurs in cash. There have been no guarantees provided or received 
for any related party receivables or payables.
 
(ii) The remuneration to the key managerial personnel (‘KMP’) does not include the provisions 
made for gratuity, leave benefits and long term incentive plan as they are determined on an 
actuarial basis for the Company as a whole.
 
(iii) The Company has agreed to provide appropriate financial support only if and to the extent 
required by certain of its subsidiaries and joint venture.
 
(iv) Refer note 20 for details of remuneration to non-executive and independent directors and 
payment to a law firm in which one of the non-executive and independent director is interested

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 304
Annual Report 
2023
281
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 Defined benefit 
obligation 
 Fair value of 
plan assets # 
Defined benefit 
liability (Net)
As at April 1, 2022
 484 
 (249)
 235 
Gratuity cost 
charged to 
Statement of 
Profit or Loss
Current Service cost
 168 
 - 
 - 
Net interest expense/ 
(income)
 35 
 - 
 - 
Return on plan assets 
(excluding amounts included 
in net interest expense)
 - 
 (18)
 - 
Sub-total included in 
Statement of Profit or Loss
 203 
 (18)
 185 
Remeasurement 
(gains)/ losses 
in Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Actuarial changes arising 
from changes in demographic 
assumptions
 - 
 - 
 - 
Actuarial changes arising 
from changes in financial 
assumptions
 (3)
 - 
 - 
Experience adjustments
 23 
 3 
 - 
Sub-total included in OCI
 20 
 3 
 23 
Net liability acquired on 
transfer of employees
 9 
 - 
 9 
Benefits paid
 (88)
 86 
 (2)
Contributions by employer
 - 
 - 
 - 
26. Gratuity
The Company provides for gratuity for employees in India as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. 
Employees who are in continuous service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The amount 
of gratuity payable on retirement/termination is the employees last drawn basic salary per month 
computed proportionately for 15 days salary multiplied for the number of years of service upto a 
limit of INR 20 Lakhs. The gratuity plan is a funded plan and the Company makes contributions to 
recognised fund/insurer in India. The Company does not fully fund the liability and maintains a target 
level of funding to be maintained over a period of time based on estimations of expected gratuity 
payments. Disclosures given below are as per actuarial valuation report of independent Actuary.
The following tables summarize the components of net benefit expenses recognized in the Standalone 
Statement of Profit and Loss and the funded status and amount recognized in the Standalone 
Balance Sheet.
Changes in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets as at March 31, 2023:

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 305
Annual Report 
2023
282
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 Defined benefit 
obligation 
 Fair value of 
plan assets # 
Defined benefit 
liability (Net)
As at March 31, 2023
 628 
 (178)
 450 
Current 
 - 
Non Current
 450 
 Defined benefit 
obligation 
 Fair value of 
plan assets # 
Defined benefit 
liability (Net)
As at April 01, 2021
 374 
 (169)
 205 
Gratuity cost 
charged to 
Statement of 
Profit or Loss
Current Service cost
 110 
 - 
 - 
Net interest expense/ 
(income)
 25 
 - 
 - 
Return on plan assets 
(excluding amounts included 
in net interest expense)
 - 
 (11)
 - 
Sub-total included in 
Statement of Profit or Loss
 135 
 (11)
 124 
Remeasurement 
(gains)/ losses 
in Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Actuarial changes arising 
from changes in demographic 
assumptions
 - 
 - 
 - 
Actuarial changes arising 
from changes in financial 
assumptions
 (8)
 - 
 - 
Experience adjustments
 24 
 2 
 - 
Sub-total included in OCI
 16 
 2 
 18 
Net liability acquired on 
transfer of employees
 20 
 - 
 20 
Benefits paid
 (61)
 49 
 (12)
Contributions by employer
 - 
 (120)
 (120)
As at March 31, 2022
 484 
 (249)
 235 
Current 
 - 
Non Current
 235 
26. Gratuity (Contd..)
Changes in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets as at March 31, 2022:
# Fair value of the total plan assets are 100% in funds managed by Insurer.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 306
Annual Report 
2023
283
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
26. Gratuity (Contd..)
The net liability disclosed above relates to funded plans are as follows:
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Present value of the obligations at end
 628 
 484 
Fair value of plan assets
 (178)
 (249)
Deficit of funded plan/gratuity plan
 450 
 235 
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
%
%
Discount rate
7.39
7.26
Future salary increases
10%
10%
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Retirement Age  (Years)
60
60
Mortality  rates inclusive of provision for disability
100% of IALM 
(2012 - 14)
100% of IALM 
(2012 - 14)
Ages
Withdrawal Rate %
 
Up to 30 Years        
30
30
 
From 31 to 44 years        
30
30
 
Above 44 years       
30
30
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2023 
Assumptions	
Discount rate
Future salary increases
Sensitivity Level
0.5% increase 0.5% decrease 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease
Impact on defined benefit 
obligation
 (11)
11
10
 (10)
March 31, 2022 
March 31, 2022 
Assumptions	
Discount rate
Future salary increases
Sensitivity Level
0.5% increase 0.5% decrease 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease
Impact on defined benefit 
obligation
 (8)
8
7
 (7)
The principal assumptions used in determining defined benefit obligations are shown below:
(i) Economic Assumptions
(ii) Demographic Assumptions
 
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption as at March 31, 2023 is as shown 
below:
 
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption as at March 31, 2022 is as shown 
below:

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 307
Annual Report 
2023
284
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates 
the impact on defined benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions 
occurring at the end of the reporting period. The methods and types of assumptions used in 
preparing the sensivity analysis did not change compared to the prior year.
 
Expected contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the period ending March 31, 2024 
are INR 254 (March 31, 2023 - INR 162).
 
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 2.79 years (March 31, 2022- 
2.78 years).
 
The average remaining working life of members of the defined benefit obligation as at March 31, 
2023 is 30.87 years (as at March 31, 2022- 29.91 years)
 
The expected maturity analysis of gratuity is as follows:
26. Gratuity (Contd..)
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period)
 115 
 93 
Between 1-2 years
 112 
 96 
Between 2 and 5 years
 214 
 169 
Beyond 5 years
 187 
 126 
Total expected payments
 628 
 484 
	
Risk exposure
 
Through its defined benefit plans, the Company is exposed to a number of risks, the most 
significant of which are detailed below:
 
Asset volatility: The plan assets are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to bond 
yields. If plan assets underperform this yield, there will be a deficit of the plan asset investments 
in fixed income securities with high grades and in government securities. These are subject to 
interest rate risk and the fund manages interest rate risk to an acceptable level.
 
Changes in bond yields: The defined benefit obligation calculated uses a discount rate based 
on government bonds. If bond yields fall, the defined benefit obligation will tend to increase.
 
Inflation risks: The payments are not linked to inflation, so this is a less material risk.
 
Life expectancy: Obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in 
life expectancy and inflation will result in an increase in the plans' liabilities. This is particularly 
significant where inflationary conditions result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 308
Annual Report 
2023
285
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
26. Gratuity (Contd..)
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Current income tax:
 
Current income tax charge
 - 
 3 
 
Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous 
year expense/(credit)
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax:
 
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary 
differences
 - 
 - 
Income tax expense reported in the Standalone Statement 
of Profit and Loss
 - 
 3 
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Accounting profit before income tax
 (18,558)
 (23,248)
Tax at India’s statutory income tax rate of 25.17% (March 31, 
2022: 25.17%)
 (4,671)
 (5,851)
Tax expense during the year for Paytm Associate Benefit Welfare 
Trust (formerly known as One97 Employee Welfare Trust)
 - 
 3 
Other non-deductible expenses
 (27)
 14 
Losses on which deferred taxes not recognised*
 2,958 
 4,887 
Unabsorbed depreciation on which deferred taxes not 
recognised*
 519 
 406 
	
Major categories of plans assets are as follows:
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Particulars
 Amount 
 In % 
 Amount 
 In % 
Government securities
 64 
 36.00 
 101 
 40.42 
Non convertible debentures/ Corporate bonds
 98 
 55.00 
 119 
 47.10 
Others
 16 
 9.00 
 29 
 11.48 
Total
 178 
 100.00 
 249 
 100.00 
27. Income Tax
The major components of income tax expense for the year ended March 31, 
2023 and March 31, 2022 are:
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss:
Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India’s 
domestic tax rate for March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022:

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 309
Annual Report 
2023
286
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Other temporary differences on which deferred taxes not 
recognised*
 1,221 
 544 
Income tax expense reported in the statement of 
profit and loss
 - 
 3 
27. Income Tax (Contd..)
* As at the year ended on March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022, the Company is having deferred tax 
assets comprising of deductible temporary differences, brought forward losses and unabsorbed 
depreciation under tax laws. However in the absence of reasonable certainty as to its realization of 
Deferred Tax Assets (DTA), DTA has not been created.
Deductible temporary differences for which no deferred tax asset is recognised 
in the Standalone Balance Sheet:
Particulars
Expiry Date 
(Year ending 
March 31,)
As of  
March 31, 
2023
As of  
March 31, 2023 
Tax impact  
@ 25.17%
As of  
March 31, 
2022
As of  
March 31, 2022 
Tax impact  
@ 25.17%
Tax Losses
2023
 - 
 - 
 3,316 
 835 
2024
 14,943 
 3,761 
 14,943 
 3,761 
2025
 7,175 
 1,806 
 7,175 
 1,806 
2026
 13,410 
 3,375 
 13,410 
 3,375 
2027
 37,638 
 9,473 
 37,638 
 9,473 
2028
 21,373 
 5,379 
 21,373 
 5,379 
2029
 12,689 
 3,193 
 12,689 
 3,193 
2030
 19,157 
 4,821 
 19,157 
 4,821 
2031
 11,755 
 2,958 
 - 
 - 
Total tax losses
 1,38,140 
 34,766 
 1,29,701 
 32,643 
Unabsorbed 
depreciation
No expiry 
period
 7,471 
 1,880 
 5,409 
 1,361 
Long term capital 
losses
No expiry 
period
 68 
 17 
 - 
 - 
Other temporary 
differences
 16,757 
 4,218 
 11,919 
 3,000 
Total
 1,62,436 
 40,881 
 1,47,029 
 37,004 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 310
Annual Report 
2023
287
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
i)
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Claims against the Company not acknowledged as 
debts
 476 
 494 
Income tax related matters
 88 
 19 
Custom duty related matter
 36 
 - 
Total
 600 
 513 
28. Commitments and contingencies
a.	 Leases
	
Operating lease: Company as Lessee	
 
The Company has taken certain office space on short term operating lease. The leases have 
varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. On renewal, the terms of the leases are 
renegotiated. Rental expense towards leases charged to Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss 
for the year ended March 31, 2023 amount to INR 5 (March 31, 2022: INR 42).
b.	 Capital commitments
 
Estimated amount of contracts towards property, plant & equipment remaining to be executed 
on capital account and not provided for is INR 2,586 (Net of capital advance of INR 566) [March 
31, 2022: INR 3,057 (Net of capital advances of INR 763)].
c.	 Contingent liabilities
 
ii) The Company will continue to assess the impact of further developments relating to retrospective 
application of Supreme Court judgement dated February 28, 2019 clarifying the definition 
of 'basic wages' under Employees' Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 1952 
and deal with it accordingly. In the assessment of the management, the aforesaid matter is 
not likely to have a significant impact and accordingly, no provision has been made in these 
Standalone Financial Statements.
 
iii) The Company has been made aware of certain matters/claims relating to infringement of 
trademarks and patents in relation to the business activities carried on by it. The Company 
actively monitors such matters/claims along with appropriate legal/technology experts to assess 
their veracity and takes action as considered necessary. In the opinion of the management, 
no material liability is likely to arise on account of such matters/claims, based on assessments 
made to date.
	
	
Notes:
 
 
1) It is not practicable for the Company to estimate the timing of cash outflows, if any.
 
 
2) The Company does not expect any reimbursements in respect of the above contingent 
liabilities.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 311
Annual Report 
2023
288
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
29. Details of dues to Micro and Small Enterprises as per MSMED Act, 
2006
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining 
unpaid to any supplier as at the end of each accounting year
- Principal amount due under MSMED Act
 349 
159
- Interest due on above
 2 
2
 351 
161
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 
16 of the MSMED Act 2006 along with the amounts of the 
payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day 
during each accounting year
 - 
 - 
Interest paid, other than under Section 16 of MSMED Act 
to suppliers registered under MSMED Act, beyond the 
appointed day during each accounting year.
 - 
 - 
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of 
delay in making payment (which have been paid but beyond 
the appointed day during the year) but without adding the 
interest specified under the MSMED Act 2006.
 12 
 11 
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the 
end of each accounting year, for payment already made
 46 
 32 
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable 
even in the earlier years, until such date when the interest 
dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprise for 
the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure 
under section 23 of the MSMED Act 2006
 - 
 - 
Principal amounts paid to suppliers registered under the 
MSMED Act, beyond the appointed day during the year
 602 
 1,219 
Total Oustanding dues of micro and small enterprises is INR 397 ( March 31, 2022: INR 193).

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 312
Annual Report 
2023
289
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
As of 
March 31, 2023
Fair value measurement at end 
of the reporting year using
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Assets
Investments at fair value through OCI
 
Investment in Equity shares
 23 
 - 
 - 
 23 
Investments at fair value through Profit and 
loss
 
Investment in Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference Shares
 40 
 - 
 - 
 40 
 
Investment in optionally convertible 
debentures
 635 
 - 
 - 
 635 
 
Inter corporate loans
 1,507 
 - 
 - 
 1,507 
 
Investment in Mutual Funds
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
30. Fair value	
Fair value hierarchy
The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Company's assets and 
liabilities: 
Level 1 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset 
or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
Level 3 - Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (unobservable 
inputs).
The following table presents fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis as of March 31, 2023
The following table presents fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis as of March 31, 2022
As of 
March 31, 2022
Fair value measurement at end 
of the reporting year using
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Assets
Investments at fair value through OCI
 
Investment in Equity shares
 23 
 - 
 - 
 23 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 313
Annual Report 
2023
290
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
As of 
March 31, 2022
Fair value measurement at end 
of the reporting year using
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Investments at fair value through Profit and 
loss
 
Investment in Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference Shares
 40 
 - 
 - 
 40 
 
Investment in optionally convertible 
debentures
 363 
 - 
 - 
 363 
 
Inter corporate loans
 1,362 
 - 
 - 
 1,362 
30. Fair value (Contd..)
The management has assessed that fair value of all other financial assets and liabilities including 
cash and cash equivalents, bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, 
loans, other financial assets, trade payables, lease liabilities and other financial liabilities, approximate 
their carrying amounts.
31. Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Company’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, including market risk, credit risk 
and liquidity risk. The Company continues to focus on a system-based approach to business risk 
management. The Company’s financial risk management process seeks to enable the early identification, 
evaluation and effective management of key risks facing the business. Backed by strong internal 
control systems, the current Risk Management Framework rests on policies and procedures issued 
by appropriate authorities; process of regular internal reviews/audits to set appropriate risk limits and 
controls; monitoring of such risks and compliance confirmation for the same. 
a.	 Market Risk
 
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate 
because of changes in market prices. Market prices comprise three types of risk: interest rate 
risk, foreign currency risk and price risk. The Company has in place appropriate risk management 
policies to limit the impact of these risks on its financial performance. The Company ensures 
optimization of cash through fund planning and robust cash management practices.
	
(i)	Interest Rate Risk
 
 
Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument 
will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. There is no interest rate risk as the 
Company did not have borrowings at the end of the current and previous year.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 314
Annual Report 
2023
291
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
	
(ii) Price risk
 
 
The Company invests its surplus funds in fixed deposits, Commercial papers, Treasury bills 
and Government Securities. There is no exposure of price risk on such instruments.
 
 
The Company is also exposed to equity/ preference shares price risk arising from investments 
held by the Company and classified in the balance sheet either as fair value through OCI or at 
fair value through profit or loss (refer note 7(a) and 7(b)). To manage its price risk arising from 
investments in equity/ preference shares, the company diversifies its portfolio. Diversification 
of the portfolio is done in accordance with the limits set by the company.
	
(iii) Foreign currency risk
 
 
The Indian Rupee is the Company’s most significant currency. As a consequence, the 
Company’s results are presented in Indian Rupee and exposures are managed against Indian 
Rupee accordingly. Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows 
of an exposure will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Company’s 
exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the Company’s 
operating activities and investing activities (when revenue, expense and Property, Plant and 
Equipment is denominated in a foreign currency).
 
 
The carrying amounts of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities denominated in United 
States Dollar (USD), Canadian Dollar (CAD) and Malaysian Ringgit (MYR) are as follows:
31. Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd..)
As at March 31, 2023 As at March 31, 2022
 Financial 
assets 
Financial 
liabilities
Financial 
assets
Financial 
liabilities
Amount in USD Millions 
6
1
7
1
Amount in CAD Millions 
               - 
-                - 
2 
Amount in MYR Millions
-
-
3
-
 
 
The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity of profit or loss to a reasonably possible 
change in USD exchange rates, with all other variables held constant.
Change in USD rate
Effect on loss before tax
March 31, 2023
 
10% strengthening of USD against INR
(43)
10% weakening of USD against INR
35
March 31, 2022
10% strengthening of USD against INR
(47)
10% weakening of USD against INR
38

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 315
Annual Report 
2023
292
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
 
The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity of profit or loss to a reasonably possible 
change in CAD and exchange rates, with all other variables held constant. 
31. Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd..)
Change in CAD rate
Effect on loss before tax
March 31, 2023
 
10% strengthening of CAD against INR
-
10% weakening of CAD against INR
-
March 31, 2022
10% strengthening of CAD against INR
13
10% weakening of CAD against INR
(10)
Change in MYR rate
Effect on loss before tax
March 31, 2023
 
10% strengthening of MYR against INR
-
10% weakening of MYR against INR
-
March 31, 2022
10% strengthening of MYR against INR
(6)
10% weakening of MYR against INR
5
 
 
The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity of profit or loss to a reasonably possible 
change in MYR and exchange rates, with all other variables held constant. 
 
 
The Company’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material. 
The above sensitivity analysis is based on a reasonably possible change in the under-lying 
foreign currency against the functional currency while assuming all other variables to be 
constant.
 
 
Based on the movements in the foreign exchange rates historically and the prevailing market 
conditions as at the reporting date, the Company’s management has concluded that the above 
mentioned rates used for sensitivity are reasonable benchmarks.
b.	 Credit Risk
 
Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or 
contract, leading to a financial loss. The Company is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities 
(primarily trade receivables) including deposits with banks. Management has a credit policy in place 
and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. The Company applies expected 
credit loss (ECL) model on financial assets measured at amortised cost e.g., loans, debt securities, 
deposits, trade receivables and bank balance. Cash and cash equivalents are also subject to the 
impairment requirement of Ind AS 109, the identified impairment loss was immaterial.
 
All of the entity's investments and loans at amortised cost are considered to have low credit risk, 
and the loss allowance recognised during the period was therefore limited to 12 months expected 
losses. Management considers instruments to be low credit risk when they have a low risk of 
default and the issuer has a strong capacity to meet its contractual cash flow obligations in the 
near term.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 316
Annual Report 
2023
293
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
31. Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd..)
	
(i)	Trade receivables
 
 
The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-payment by customers. Customer 
credit risk is managed subject to the Company’s established policy, procedures and control 
relating to customer credit risk management. An impairment analysis is performed at each 
reporting date by grouping the receivables in homogeneous group. The calculation is based 
on lifetime expected credit losses. 
 
 
Expected credit loss for trade receivable under simplified approach- period ended  
March 31, 2023
Ageing in years
Unbilled 
Dues
Not 
due
0-1 
year
1-2 
year
2-3 
year >3 year
Credit 
impaired
Total
Gross carrying 
amount
5,632
3,975
1,999
412
160
123
1,154 13,455
Expected loss rate
     3%
3%
6%
63%
86%
84%
100%
Expected credit 
losses (Loss 
allowance provision)
157     107 
115
261
137
103
1,154
2,034
Carrying amount 
(net of loss 
allowance)
5,475 3,868
1,884
151
23
20
         - 11,421
Ageing in years
Unbilled 
Dues
Not 
due
0-1 
year
1-2 
year
2-3 
year >3 year
Credit 
impaired
Total
Gross carrying 
amount
2,993
1,509
2,782
392
135
107
849
8,767
Expected loss rate
5%
5%
5%
72%
93%
97%
100%
Expected credit 
losses (Loss 
allowance provision)
148       70 
129
283
125
104
849
1,708
Carrying amount 
(net of loss 
allowance)
2,845
1,439
2,653
109
10
3
         - 
7,059
 
 
Expected credit loss for trade receivable under simplified approach- year ended 
March 31, 2022

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 317
Annual Report 
2023
294
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
31. Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd..)
Reconciliation of loss allowance
Loss allowance measured 
at simplified approach
Loss allowance as on April 1, 2021
1,532
Creation during the year
   236
Transferred pursuant to BTA (refer note 38)
(60)
Loss Allowance as on March 31, 2022
1,708
Creation during the year
326
Loss Allowance as on March 31, 2023
2,034
 
 
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of trade 
receivables. The Company does not hold collateral as security.
	
(ii) Other investments (excluding loans to related parties)
 
 
All of the entity’s other investments (preference shares, government securities, commercial 
papers, treasury bills and security deposits) at amortised cost are considered to have low 
credit risk, and the loss allowance recognised during the period was therefore limited to 12 
months’ expected losses. Management consider ‘low credit risk’ for listed instruments to be 
an investment grade credit rating with at least one major rating agency. Other instruments 
are considered to have low credit risk when they have a low risk of default and the issuer has 
a strong capacity to meet its contractual cash flow obligations in the near term.
	
(iii) Loan to related parties
 
 
The Company considers the probability of default upon initial recognition of loan and whether 
there has been a significant increase in credit risk on an ongoing basis throughout each 
reporting period. To assess whether there is a significant increase in credit risk, the Company 
compares the risk of a default occurring on the loan as at the reporting date with the risk of 
default as at the date of initial recognition. It considers available reasonable and supportive 
forwarding-looking information.
	
(iv) Other financial assets
 
 
Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Company’s 
treasury department in accordance with the Company’s policy. Investment of surplus funds 
is made only with banks of high repute.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 318
Annual Report 
2023
295
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
31. Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd..)
Particulars
0-180 days
181-365 
days
1-2 Year
More than 
2 year
Total
As at March 31, 2023
Lease liabilities
     219
228
417
2,068
  2,932
Trade payables
  7,834
-
-
-
  7,834
Other financial liabilities
13,525
-
-
-
13,525
Total
       21,578
228
417
        2,068
      24,291
As at March 31, 2022
Lease liabilities
    266
212
374
2,107
  2,959
Trade payables
 7,107
-
-
-
     7,107
Other financial liabilities
 7,308
-
-
-
     7,308
Total
       14,681
212
374
        2,107
       17,374
Reconciliation of loss allowance
Loss allowance measured 
at 12 month expected loss
Loss allowance as on April 1, 2021
282
Creation during the year
460
Loss allowance as on March 31, 2022
742
Creation during the year
469
Loss Allowance as on March 31, 2023
1,211
 
 
The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the balance sheet at 
March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 is the carrying amounts as disclosed in Note 7 (c) and 7 (d).
c.	 Liquidity Risk
 
The Company’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility 
through the use of bank overdrafts, working capital loans etc. Company monitor their risk of 
shortage of funds using cash flow forecasting models. These models consider the maturity of 
their financial investments, committed funding and projected cash flows from operations. The 
Company’s objective is to provide financial resources to meet its business objectives in a timely, 
cost effective and reliable manner. A balance between continuity of funding and flexibility is 
maintained through the use of bank borrowings. The Company also monitors compliance with its 
debt covenants. The maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities based on contractual 
undiscounted payments is given in the table below:

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 319
Annual Report 
2023
296
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
32. Capital Management
The Company’s objectives while managing capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going 
concern and to generate adequate returns for its shareholders and ensuring benefits for other 
stakeholders. The key objective of the Company’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains 
a stable capital structure with the focus on total equity, uphold investor, creditor and customer 
confidence, and ensure future development of its business activities. The Company manages its 
capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions or its 
business requirements.
Company's capital management objective is to remain majorly a debt-free company till the time it 
achieves break-even. In order to meet this objective, Company meets anticipated funding requirements 
for developing new businesses, expanding its geographical base, entering in to strategic mergers 
and acquisitions and other strategic investments, by issuance of equity capital together with cash 
generated from Company’s operating and investing activities. The company utilizes certain working 
capital facilities in the form of short term bank overdraft to meet anticipated interim working capital 
requirements.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the year 
ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022.
33.	 Segment Reporting
The Company is engaged in different business units, including payment and financial services, 
commerce and cloud services and the Board of Directors (Chief Operating Decision Maker “CODM”) 
reviews the information at the revenue level and does not allocate operating costs and expenses, 
assets and liabilities across business units, as the CODM does not use such information to allocate 
resources or evaluate the performance of the business units. The way the CODM reviews the 
performance, management of the Company has concluded that it constitutes a single segment as 
per Ind AS 108 ‘Operating Segments’. Hence, no separate disclosure is required for segments.
The Company has revenues primarily from customers domiciled in India. Substantially all of the 
Company’s non-current operating assets are domiciled in India.
Information about major customers
Revenue of INR 7,089 are derived from one external customer (March 31, 2022: INR 6,379 from one 
external customer).

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 320
Annual Report 
2023
297
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
34. Details of Transactions and outstanding balances of Paytm 
E-Commerce Private Limited (PEPL)
Details of transactions entered during the year
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Rendering of services to PEPL
955
1,194
Reimbursement of expenses incurred on behalf of PEPL
28
122
Services received from PEPL
200
189
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Other financial assets
5
13
Trade payables
45
79
Contract liabilities
3,384
4,176
Trade receivable
16
30
Details of outstanding balances
35. Overdue outstanding foreign currency receivables
As of March 31, 2023, the Company has certain foreign currency receivable balances aggregating to 
INR 374 outstanding beyond the stipulated time period permitted under the RBI Master Direction on 
Export of Goods and Services vide FED Master Direction No. 16/2015-16 dated January 1, 2016 (as 
amended), issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The Company had applied to the Authorised 
Dealer Bank for extension of time for realisation of the amount and the approval has been received.
36. Transfer pricing
The Company has established a comprehensive system of maintenance of information and documents 
as required by the transfer pricing legislation under sections 92-92F of the Income Tax Act, 1961. For 
this purpose, the Company has appointed independent consultants for conducting Transfer Pricing 
Study. Management is of the opinion that its international transactions with associated enterprises 
have been undertaken at arms' length basis at duly negotiated prices on usual commercial terms. 
The transfer pricing study for the year ended March 31, 2022 has been completed which did not 
result in any material adjustment.
37. Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR) expenditure
The Company has not earned net profit in three immediately preceding financial years, therefore, 
there was no amount as per section 135 of the Act which was required to be spent on CSR activities 
in the current financial year by the Company. However, the Company has spent an amount of INR 
26 (March 31, 2022: INR 14) as CSR expenditure.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 321
Annual Report 
2023
298
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
38. During the previous year ended March 31, 2022, the Company had transferred online Payment 
Aggregator business to Paytm Payments Services Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, 
to comply with Guidelines on Regulation of Payment Aggregators And Payment Gateways issued by 
RBI via circular dated March 17, 2020. This business transfer agreement has been approved by Board 
and Shareholders on August 30, 2021 and September 23, 2021 respectively. The consideration of INR 
2,838 for transfer of business would be settled in cash based on the carrying value of the net assets 
of the business as on September 1, 2021, being the date of transfer of operations. For accounting 
purposes date of effective loss of control over the above business has been taken as September 30, 
2021 considering that the transaction was approved by the shareholders on September 23, 2021 and 
final submission was made to RBI on September 30, 2021. The consideration is to be paid in 5 equal 
annual installments payable at the end of each year without any interest. The difference between 
present value of consideration and net assets amounting to INR 601 has been accounted as ‘Deemed 
Investment’ in Standalone Financial Statements. The transferred operations are not considered as 
discontinued operations in the Standalone Financial Statements of the Company in accordance with 
Ind AS. Consequent to the aforesaid transfer, figures for the previous year ended March 31, 2022 
are not comparable with the figures of current year ended March 31, 2023.
39. Utilisation of IPO proceeds
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Company had completed its initial public offer (IPO) of 
85,116,278 equity shares of face value of INR 1 each at an issue price of INR 2,150 per share, comprising 
fresh issue of 38,604,651 shares and offer for sale of 46,511,627 shares by selling shareholders. The 
equity shares of the Company were listed on National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) and 
BSE Limited (BSE) on November 18, 2021.
The Company had incurred INR 4,115 as IPO related expenses and allocated such expenses between 
the Company INR 1,866 and selling shareholders INR 2,249. Such amounts were allocated based on 
agreement between the Company and selling shareholders and in proportion to the total proceeds of 
the IPO. Out of Company’s share of expenses of INR 1,866, INR 1,401 had been adjusted to securities 
premium.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 322
Annual Report 
2023
299
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
S. 
No Objects of the issue
Amount as 
proposed in 
Offer Document
Amount 
Utilised up to 
March 31, 2023
Amount Un-
utilised as on 
March 31,   2023
1
Growing and strengthening our 
Paytm ecosystem, including through 
acquisition and retention of consumers 
and merchants and providing them 
with greater access to technology and 
financial services
43,000
10,722
i) Marketing and promotional expenses
   5,985
ii) Expanding our merchant base and 
deepening our partnership with our 
merchants
12,967
iii) Strengthening and expanding our 
technology powered payments 
platform
13,326
Total (A)
43,000
32,278
10,722
2
Investing in new business initiatives, 
acquisitions and strategic partnerships
20,000
20,000
i) Investments in new business 
initiatives
 
a) Payment Services
-
 
b) Commerce and cloud services
-
 
c) Financial Services
-
ii) Investments in acquisitions and 
strategic partnerships
-
Total (B)
20,000
-
20,000
3
General corporate purposes
18,134
7,849
10,285
Total (C)
18,134
7,849
10,285
Total (A+B+C)
81,134
40,127
41,007
39. Utilisation of IPO proceeds (Contd..)
Net IPO proceeds which were un-utilised as at March 31, 2023 were temporarily invested in deposits 
with scheduled commercial banks and in monitoring agency account.
Details of utilisation of net IPO Proceeds of INR 81,134, are as follows:

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 323
Annual Report 
2023
300
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
40. Buyback of shares
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on December 13, 2022 had approved buy-back of equity 
shares amounting to INR 8,500 (Maximum buy-back size, excluding transaction costs and tax on 
buy-back) at a price not exceeding INR 810 per equity share (Maximum buy-back price). The buy-
back was offered to the equity shareholders of the Company under the open market route through 
the stock exchanges.
The buyback of equity shares commenced on December 21, 2022 and was completed on February 
13, 2023. During this period, the Company had bought back 15,566,746 Equity Shares at an average 
price of INR 545.93 per Equity Share aggregating to INR 8,498 (99.98% of the Maximum Buyback 
Size) and subsequently these shares have been extinguished.
Consequent to the said buy-back, the equity share capital has been reduced by INR 16 and an 
equivalent amount has been transferred from securities premium account to capital redemption 
reserve. Further INR 10,545 has been debited to the securities premium account on account of 
premium on shares bought back, related transaction costs and related taxes.
41. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III	
(i) (a) The Company has granted loans and made investment in some of its subsidiary companies, 
associate companies, joint ventures and other parties. Loans has been given for general 
corporate purpose. In some of the cases, the susbidiaries, associates and joint ventures have 
utilised equity and borrowings for further investment as per their business requirement. Details 
of these Loans and investments for the year ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 are 
as follows: 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 324
Annual Report 
2023
301
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Name of 
Intermediary
CIN
Relation 
with 
Company
Type
Date
Amount
Name of 
Ultimate 
beneficiary
Relation with 
Intermediary
Type
Date
Amount
Admirable 
Software 
Limited
U72900DL2021
PLC385287
Associate 
Company
Optionally 
Convertible 
Debentures
August 27, 
2021
175 Urja Money 
Private Limited
Ultimate 
beneficiary is the 
subsidiary of the 
company which 
has significant 
influence over 
the intermediary
Equity 
Investment
August 27, 
2021
175
Admirable 
Software 
Limited
U72900DL2021
PLC385287
Associate 
Company
Optionally 
Convertible 
Debentures
February 
11, 2022
57 Mobiquest 
Mobile 
Technologies 
Private Limited
Ultimate 
beneficiary is the 
subsidiary of the 
company which 
has significant 
influence over 
the intermediary
Equity 
Investment
February 
18, 2022
7
Urja Money 
Private Limited
U93000MH2012
PTC237284
Subsidiary 
Company
Loan
June 30, 
2021
15 Fincollect 
Services 
Private Limited
Subsidiary of the 
intermediary
Loan
July 15, 
2021
5
Urja Money 
Private Limited
U93000MH2012
PTC237284
Subsidiary 
Company
Optionally 
Convertible 
Debentures
September 
28, 2021
30 Fincollect 
Services 
Private Limited
Subsidiary of the 
intermediary
Loan
September 
30, 2021
1
October 1, 
2021
*
October 7, 
2021
*
October 
18, 2021
15
November 
2, 2021
*
November 
30, 2021
*
December 
31, 2021
3
January 6, 
2022
*
First Games 
Technology 
Private Limited 
(formerly 
known as 
Paytm First 
Games Private 
Limited)
U74999DL2017
PTC325912
Joint 
Venture
Loan
June 7, 
2021
803 First Games 
Singapore Pte. 
Ltd. (formerly 
known as 
Paytm First 
Games 
Singapore Pte. 
Ltd.)
Subsidiary of the 
intermediary
Equity 
Investment
June 30, 
2021
28
First Games 
Singapore 
Pte. Ltd. 
(formerly 
known as 
Paytm First 
Games 
Singapore 
Pte. Ltd.)
Subsidiary of the 
intermediary
Equity 
Investment
September 
6, 2021
11
Paytm 
Technology 
Beijing Co., 
Limited
Subsidiary of the 
intermediary
Equity 
Investment
September 
4, 2021
1
41. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III	 (Contd..)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 325
Annual Report 
2023
302
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
41. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III	 (Contd..)
 
 
The above transactions are in compliance with the relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange 
Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and the Companies Act, 2013 and the transactions are 
not violative of the Prevention of Money-Laundering act, 2002 (15 of 2003).
(i) (b) The Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign 
entities (Funding Party) with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that 
the Company shall: a. directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or b. 
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
(ii) During the current year, the Company has not availed borrowings from banks and financial institutions.  
During the previous year, the Company had availed loan from a bank on the basis of security of 
current assets. The Company filed statement of current assets with the bank on quarterly basis. 
There were no material discrepancies between the statement filed and the books of accounts. 
There were no borrowing outstanding as on March 31, 2022. 
(iii) There are no Balances reported with the companies identified as struck off under section 248 
of Companies Act, 2013 or section 560 of Companies Act, 1956 as at March 31, 2023. During 
the year, the Company has written off and written back the balances with struck off companies 
amounting to * and 1 respectively.
 
Details of transactions entered during the year ended March 31, 2022 by the Company are as 
follows:
Name of the struck off company 
 Balance outstanding 
as at March 31, 2022 
Relationship with the 
struck off company
Dravya Technosys Private Limited
 -  Vendor 
Global Softnet Software Private Limited
 -  Vendor 
Zapcel Technologies Pvt Ltd        
 *  Vendor 
One M Infomedia Private Limited    
 *  Vendor 
Vektrix Consulting Private Limited 
 *  Vendor 
Deep Enterprises Pvt Ltd           
 -  Vendor 
Shine Star Luxary Coach And Cargo Private 
Limited
 *  Customer 
Lahori Foods Private Limited       
 *  Customer 
Automark Pvt Ltd                   
 *  Customer 
Sripati Infracon Private Limited   
 2  Customer 
Life Plus Living Private Limited   
 *  Customer 
Deep Enterprises Pvt Ltd           
 *  Customer 
Bquobe Infosystem Private Limited  
 *  Customer 
SRS Entertainment Limited          
 *  Customer 
 
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 326
Annual Report 
2023
303
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
(iv) Analytical Ratios
 
The following reflects the ratios and data used in the computation:
41. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III	 (Contd..)
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
Ratio
% 
Variance
 Reason for 
variance 
March 
31, 2023 
March 
31, 2022 
March 
31, 2023 
March 
31, 2022 
March 
31, 2023 
March 
31, 2022 
(a) Current Ratio = Current 
Assets / Current Liabilities
 1,18,177 
 91,773 
 28,798 
 21,317 
 4.10 
 4.31 
(4.68%) N/A
(b) Debt-Equity Ratio = Total 
Debt / Shareholder’s Equity
 2,066 
 2,042  1,22,867  1,37,125 
 0.02 
 0.01 
12.92% N/A
(c) Debt Service Coverage Ratio 
= Earnings available for debt 
service / Debt Service
 (13,761)
(20,585)
 554 
 607 
 N/A 
 N/A 
 N/A N/A, refer 
note (i)
(d) Return on Equity Ratio = Net 
Profit / Average Shareholder’s 
Equity
 (18,558)  (23,251)
1,29,996 1,03,485 (14.28%) (22.47%)
36.46% Increased 
on account 
of decrease 
in loss and 
increase 
in average 
shareholder’s 
equity, 
majorily on 
account 
of issue of 
shares in 
previous year
(e) Trade Receivables turnover 
ratio = Total Sales / Average 
Accounts Receivable
 60,277 
 38,924 
 9,240 
 5,987 
 6.52 
 6.50 
0.34% N/A
(f) Trade payables turnover ratio 
= Total Purchase / Average 
Accounts Payable
 43,634 
 41,855 
 7,471 
 6,622 
 5.84 
 6.32 
(7.59%) N/A
(g) Net capital turnover ratio = 
Total Sales / Working Capital
 60,277 
 38,924 
 89,379 
 70,456 
 0.67 
 0.55 
22.07% N/A
(h) Net profit ratio = Net profit / 
Total Sales
 (18,558)  (23,251)
 60,277 
 38,924 (30.79%) (59.73%)
48.46% Increased on 
account of 
increase in 
total sales
(i) Return on Capital employed = 
EBIT / Capital employed
 (21,703)
 
(25,256)
 1,24,491 1,39,069 (17.43%)
(18.16%)
(4.01%) N/A
(j) Return on investment = Net 
Profit / Total Assets
 (18,558)  (23,251)
1,56,364 1,63,566 
(11.87%)
(14.22%)
(16.51%) N/A

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 327
Annual Report 
2023
304
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
	
Notes:
 
(i) Debt Service Coverage Ratio has not been computed as Earnings available for debt service 
are negative for current year and previous year.
 
 
Total Debt = Borrowings + Lease liabilities
 
 
Shareholder’s Equity = Total Equity
 
 
Earning available for Debt Service = Loss for the year + Depreciation and amortization 
expense + Finance costs + Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets written off 
+ Loss/(profit) on sale of property, plant and equipment (net) Debt Service = Interest paid + 
Repayment of term loan + Principal elements of lease payments 
 
 
Total Sales = Revenue from operations
 
 
Total Purchase = Payment processing charges + Marketing and promotional expenses + 
Software, cloud and data centre expenses + (Other expenses - Provision for advances - Loss 
allowance for financial assets - Trade receivables / advance written off - Goods and services 
tax expense off - Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets written off - Exchange 
differences (net))
 
 
Net Profit = Loss for the year
 
 
Working Capital = Current Assets - Current Liabilities
 
 
EBIT = Loss before exceptional items and tax + Finance costs - Other income
 
 
Capital employed = Total Equity - Other intangible assets - Intangible assets under development 
+ Borrowings + Lease liabilities
(v)	Details of benami property held
 
The Company does not hold any benami property and no proceedings have been initiated on or 
are pending against the Company under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 
1988 (as amended in 2016) (formerly the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 
1988)) and Rules made thereunder.
(vi) Wilful defaulter
 
The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or 
government or any government authority.
(vii) Compliance with number of layers of companies
 
The Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013.
(viii) Compliance with approved scheme(s) of arrangements
 
The Company has not entered into any scheme of arrangement which has an accounting impact 
on current or previous financial year.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 328
Annual Report 
2023
305
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
(ix)	Undisclosed income
 
There is no income surrendered or disclosed as income during the current or previous year in 
the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961, that has not been recorded in the books 
of account.
(x)	Details of crypto currency or virtual currency
 
The Company has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the current 
or previous year.
(xi) Valuation of PP&E, intangible asset and investment property
 
The Company does not  have any investment property during the current or previous year. The 
Company has chosen cost model for its Property, Plant and Equipment and intangible assets and 
hence no revaluation was carried out for these assets.
(xii) Title deeds of immovable properties not held in name of the company
 
The title deeds of all the immovable properties are held in the name of the Company during the 
current and previous year.
(xiii) Registration of charges or satisfaction with Registrar of Companies
 
There are no charges or satisfaction which are yet to be registered with the Registrar of Companies 
beyond the statutory period.
(xiv) Utilisation of borrowings availed from banks and financial institutions.
 
The Company has not availed any borrowings from banks and financial institutions during the 
current year. During the previous year the Company had utilised the borrowing for the purpose 
it was obtained.
42. Company Secretary
Mr. Amit Khera, Company Secretary of the Company has resigned from the Company with effect 
from March 14, 2023. The Company is in the process of identifying the replacement and shall make 
the appointment at the earliest and in any event within the applicable statutory time limit.
41. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III	 (Contd..)
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP 
Firm registration number: 012754N/ N500016
Amitesh Dutta | Partner 
Membership No: 058507 
Place: Gurugram | Date: May 5, 2023
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of One 97 Communications Limited
Vijay Shekhar Sharma | Chairman, 
Madhur Deora | Executive Director, 
Managing Director and CEO 
President & Group Chief Financial Officer 
DIN No. 00466521 
DIN No. 07720350 
Place: New Delhi | Date: May 5, 2023 
Place: Mumbai | Date: May 5, 2023

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 329
Annual Report 
2023
306
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Report on the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
1. We have audited the accompanying 
Consolidated Financial Statements of 
One 97 Communications Limited (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Holding Company”) and 
its subsidiaries (Holding Company and its 
subsidiaries together referred to as “the 
Group”), its associate companies and joint 
ventures (refer Note 23 to the attached 
Consolidated Financial Statements), which 
comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet 
as at March 31, 2023, and the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other 
Comprehensive Income), the Consolidated 
Statement of Changes in Equity  and the 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
for the year then ended, and notes to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements, including 
a summary of significant accounting policies 
and other explanatory information (hereinafter 
referred to as “the Consolidated Financial 
Statements ”).
2. In our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us, 
the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements 
give the information required by the Companies 
Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in the manner so required 
and give a true and fair view in conformity with 
the accounting principles generally accepted 
in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of 
the Group, its associate companies and joint 
ventures as at March 31, 2023, of consolidated 
total comprehensive income (comprising of loss 
and other comprehensive income), consolidated 
changes in equity and its consolidated cash 
flows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
3. We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under 
Section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities 
under those Standards are further described 
in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements” 
section of our report. We are independent 
of the Group, its associate companies and 
joint ventures in accordance with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of 
the Consolidated Financial Statements in India 
in terms of the Code of Ethics issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
and the relevant provisions of the Act, and we 
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities 
in accordance with these requirements. We 
believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained and the audit evidence obtained 
by the other auditors in terms of their 
reports referred to in sub-paragraph 16 of 
the Other Matters section below, other than 
the unaudited financial statements/ financial 
information as certified by the management 
and referred to in sub-paragraph 17 of the 
Other Matters section below, is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
Emphasis of Matter
4. We draw your attention to Note 42(a) to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements, relating 
to one of the Subsidiary Company, which 
To the Members of One 97 Communications Limited

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 330
Annual Report 
2023
307
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
describes that the Subsidiary Company's 
application for authorization to set up Payment 
System (‘PA application’), to the Department 
of Payment and Settlement Systems, Reserve 
Bank of India(“RBI”), was returned. The 
Subsidiary Company has further been advised 
by the RBI to resubmit its application after the 
receipt of approval from the Government of 
India ('GoI'), on past downward investment 
from One 97 Communications Limited (the 
holding company), in compliance with Foreign 
Direct Investment (FDI) Guidelines. If GoI does 
not provide such approval, the Subsidiary 
Company has been directed to inform RBI 
immediately. The response to the Subsidiary 
Company's application to the GoI for the 
aforesaid approval, is presently awaited. 
 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of the 
above matter.
5. The following emphasis of matter paragraph 
has been included in the independent 
auditor’s report dated April 22, 2023 issued 
by independent firm of chartered accountants 
on the audit of the Special Purpose Ind AS 
Financial Information of Paytm Payments Bank 
Limited which has been reported as under:
 
"Attention is drawn to note no. 2(e) regarding 
the receipt of the Comprehensive Systems 
IT Audit (RBI) report during the year 
recommending strengthening of IT outsourcing 
processes and operational risk management, 
including KYC/AML at the Bank. The Bank's 
compliance to the RBI's report is currently 
being validated by the RBI. Our conclusion is 
not modified in respect of above matter."
 
Note 2(e) referred above corresponds to 
Note 42(b) to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
Key Audit Matters
6. Key audit matters are those matters that, in 
our professional judgement, were of most 
significance in our audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements of the current period. 
These matters were addressed in the context 
of our audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 331
Annual Report 
2023
308
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Key audit matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Assessment of impairment of goodwill relating 
to acquisition of subsidiaries and assessment 
of appropriateness of the carrying value of 
investments in associates
(Refer accompanying notes 2.2, 2.4, 2.5(k), 
2.5(o), 2.5(v), 4, 5(b), 20, 24A and 36 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements)
Our procedures to assess impairment of goodwill relating 
to acquisition of subsidiaries and appropriateness of the 
assessment of carrying value of investments in associates 
included the following:
• We obtained an understanding from the management, 
assessed and tested the design and operating 
effectiveness of the Company's key controls over 
the impairment and valuation assessment.
The Group performed an impairment 
assessment over the goodwill balance by 
calculating the recoverable value of the 
cash generating unit (CGU) to which the 
Goodwill belongs using a discounted cash 
flow model and comparing the same with the 
carrying value. For the purpose of impairment 
assessment, each subsidiary is considered 
as separate CGU.
The management has estimated future cash 
flows for a 5 year period and a terminal growth 
rate is applied in determining the terminal 
value.
Further, there are certain investments in 
associates which are carried at cost (subject 
to impairment assessment).
We considered impairment assessment of 
goodwill and carrying value of associate’s 
investment as key audit matter given the extent 
of management judgement and the estimates 
involved around impairment assessment with 
respect to determining appropriate discount 
rates, cash flow projections (Cash flow 
forecasts) and earnings growth rates applied 
beyond the initial five-year period (Terminal 
growth rates).
• We evaluated the Company’s process regarding 
impairment and carrying value assessment by 
involving auditor’s valuation experts to assist in 
assessing the appropriateness of the valuation 
and impairment model including the independent 
assessment of the underlying assumptions relating 
to cash flow, discount rate, terminal value, etc. for 
material investments.
• We checked the mathematical accuracy of the 
valuation and impairment model and agreed 
relevant data back to the latest budgets, actual 
past results and other supporting documents.
• We assessed the Company’s sensitivity analysis 
and evaluated whether any reasonably foreseeable 
change in assumptions could lead to impairment 
or material change in the carrying value.
• We assessed adequacy of relevant disclosures in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Based on the above audit procedures performed, 
the Management’s assessment of the impairment of 
goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries and carrying 
value of the investments in associates was considered 
to be reasonable.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 332
Annual Report 
2023
309
Financial Statements
Other Information
7. The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is 
responsible for the other information. The other 
information comprises the information included 
in the Holding Company’s Board’s Report, 
Corporate Governance Report, Management 
Discussion and Analysis Report and Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report but 
does not include the Consolidated Financial 
Statements and our and other auditor’s report 
thereon. The Board’s Report, Corporate 
Governance Report, Management Discussion 
and Analysis Report and Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report is expected to be made 
available to us after the date of this auditor's 
report. Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements does not cover the other information 
and we will not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements, our 
responsibility is to read the other information 
identified above when it becomes available 
and, in doing so, consider whether the other 
information is materially inconsistent with 
the Consolidated Financial Statements or our 
knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise 
appears to be materially misstated. When we 
read the Holding Company’s Board’s Report, 
Corporate Governance Report, Management 
Discussion and Analysis Report, Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report, if we 
conclude that there is a material misstatement 
therein, we are required to communicate the 
matter to those charged with governance and 
take appropriate action as applicable under the 
relevant laws and regulations.
Responsibilities of Management and 
Those Charged With Governance for 
the Consolidated Financial Statements 
8. The Holding Company’s Board of Directors 
is responsible for the preparation and 
presentation of these Consolidated Financial 
Statements in term of the requirements of 
the Act that give a true and fair view of the 
consolidated financial position, consolidated 
financial performance and consolidated cash 
flows, and consolidated changes in equity of 
the Group including its associate companies 
and joint ventures in accordance with the 
accounting principles generally accepted in 
India, including the Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act. The 
respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group and of its associate 
companies and joint ventures are responsible 
for maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions 
of the Act for safeguarding the assets of 
the Group and for preventing and detecting 
frauds and other irregularities; selection 
and application of appropriate accounting 
policies; making judgements and estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent; and the 
design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls, that were 
operating effectively for ensuring accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, 
relevant to the preparation and presentation 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements  that 
give a true and fair view and are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, which have been used for the purpose 
of preparation of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements by the Directors of the Holding 
Company, as aforesaid.
Independent Auditor’s Report

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 333
Annual Report 
2023
310
Financial Statements
9. In preparing the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, the respective Board of Directors 
of the companies included in the Group and 
of its associate companies and  joint ventures 
are responsible for assessing the ability of the 
Group and of its associate companies and 
joint ventures to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to 
going concern and using the going concern 
basis of accounting unless management either 
intends to liquidate the Group or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but 
to do so.
10. The respective Board of Directors of the 
companies included in the Group and of 
its associate companies and joint ventures 
are responsible for overseeing the financial 
reporting process of the Group and of its 
associate companies and joint ventures.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the 
Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements 
11. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether the Consolidated 
Financial Statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that 
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is 
a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee 
that an audit conducted in accordance with 
SAs will always detect a material misstatement 
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from 
fraud or error and are considered material 
if, individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence 
the economic decisions of users taken on 
the basis of these Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
12. As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we 
exercise professional judgement and maintain 
professional scepticism throughout the audit. 
We also:
 
• Identify and assess the risks of material 
misstatement of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit 
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk 
of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one 
resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control.
 
• Obtain an understanding of internal control 
relevant to the audit in order to design 
audit procedures that are appropriate in 
the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)
(i) of the Act, we are also responsible 
for expressing our opinion on whether 
the Holding Company has adequate 
internal financial controls with reference 
to Consolidated Financial Statements in 
place and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls.
 
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting 
policies used and the reasonableness 
of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by management.
 
• Conclude on the appropriateness of 
management’s use of the going concern 
basis of accounting and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material 
uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt 
Independent Auditor’s Report

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 334
Annual Report 
2023
311
Financial Statements
on the ability of the Group and its associate 
companies and joint ventures to continue 
as a going concern. If we conclude that a 
material uncertainty exists, we are required 
to draw attention in our auditor’s report to 
the related disclosures in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements or, if such disclosures 
are inadequate, to modify our opinion. 
Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our 
auditor’s report. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the Group and its 
associate companies and joint ventures 
to cease to continue as a going concern. 
 
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure 
and content of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, including the disclosures, 
and whether the Consolidated Financial 
Statements represent the underlying 
transactions and events in a manner that 
achieves fair presentation. 
 
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the financial information of the 
entities or business activities within the 
Group and its associate companies and 
joint ventures to express an opinion on the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. We are 
responsible for the direction, supervision 
and performance of the audit of the financial 
statements of such entities included in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements of 
which we are the independent auditors. 
For the other entities included in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements, which 
have been audited by other auditors, such 
other auditors remain responsible for the 
direction, supervision and performance of 
the audits carried out by them. We remain 
solely responsible for our audit opinion.
13. We communicate with those charged with 
governance of the Holding Company and such 
other entities included in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements of which we are the 
independent auditors regarding, among other 
matters, the planned scope and timing of the 
audit and significant audit findings, including 
any significant deficiencies in internal control 
that we identify during our audit.
14. We also provide those charged with 
governance with a statement that we have 
complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters 
that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related 
safeguards.
15. From the matters communicated with those 
charged with governance, we determine those 
matters that were of most significance in the 
audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
of the current period and are therefore the key 
audit matters. We describe these matters in 
our auditor’s report unless law or regulation 
precludes public disclosure about the matter 
or when, in extremely rare circumstances, 
we determine that a matter should not be 
communicated in our report because the 
adverse consequences of doing so would 
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
16. We did not audit the financial statements/ 
financial information of 12 subsidiaries included 
in the consolidated financial statements, whose 
financial statements/ financial information reflect 
total assets of INR 19,947 million and net assets 
of INR 14,533 million as at March 31, 2023, total 
Independent Auditor’s Report

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 335
Annual Report 
2023
312
Financial Statements
revenues of INR 6,196 million, total profit after 
tax of INR 240 million, and total comprehensive 
income of INR 1,135 million for the year ended 
March 31, 2023, and cash inflows (net) of 
INR 1,208 million for the year ended March 
31, 2023, as considered in the consolidated 
financial statements. The consolidated financial 
statements also include the Group’s share of 
net profit after tax of INR 13 million and total 
comprehensive income of INR 128 million for the 
year ended March 31, 2023, as considered in the 
consolidated financial statements, in respect of 
2 associates and 1 joint venture, whose financial 
statements/ financial information have not been 
audited by us. These financial statements/ 
financial information have been audited by other 
auditors whose reports have been furnished to 
us by the Management, and our opinion on the 
Consolidated Financial Statements insofar as it 
relates to the amounts and disclosures included 
in respect of these subsidiaries, joint venture 
and associate companies and our report in 
terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the 
Act including report on Other Information insofar 
as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, joint 
venture and associate companies, is based 
solely on the reports of the other auditors. 
17. We did not audit the financial statements/
financial information of 11 subsidiaries, whose 
financial statements/ financial information 
reflect total assets of INR 393 million and 
net assets of INR (-)63 million as at March 
31, 2023, total revenue of INR 404 million, 
total loss after tax of INR 13 million, and total 
comprehensive loss of INR 13 million for the 
year ended March 31, 2023, and cash inflows 
(net) of INR 21 million for the year ended March 
31, 2023, as considered in the consolidated 
financial results. The consolidated financial 
statements also includes the Group’s share 
of net loss after tax of INR 5 million and 
total comprehensive loss of INR 5 million 
for the year ended March 31, 2023, as 
considered in the consolidated financial 
statements, in respect of 6 associates and 
1 joint venture, whose financial statements/ 
financial information have not been audited 
by us. These financial statements/ financial 
information are unaudited and have been 
furnished to us by the Management, and 
our opinion on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements insofar as it relates to the amounts 
and disclosures included in respect of these 
subsidiaries, joint venture and associate 
companies and our report in terms of sub-
section (3) of Section 143 of the Act including 
report on Other Information insofar as it relates 
to the aforesaid subsidiaries, joint venture 
and associate companies, is based solely on 
such unaudited financial statements/ financial 
information. In our opinion and according to 
the information and explanations given to us by 
the Management, these financial statements/ 
financial information are not material to the 
Group.
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, and our report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements below, is not modified 
in respect of the above matters with respect to 
our reliance on the work done and the reports of 
the other auditors and the financial statements/ 
financial information certified by the Management.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements
18. As required by the Companies (Auditor’s 
Report) Order, 2020 (“CARO 2020”), issued 
by the Central Government of India in terms 
of sub-section (11) of Section 143 of the Act, 
we give in the Annexure B, a statement on the 
matter specified in paragraph 3(xxi) of CARO 
2020.
Independent Auditor’s Report

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 336
Annual Report 
2023
313
Financial Statements
19. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we 
report, to the extent applicable, that:
 
(a) We have sought and obtained all the 
information and explanations which to 
the best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit 
of the aforesaid Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
 
(b) In our opinion, proper books of account 
as required by law relating to preparation 
of the aforesaid Consolidated Financial 
Statements have been kept so far as it 
appears from our examination of those 
books and the reports of the other 
auditors.
 
(c) The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 
(including Other Comprehensive Income), 
the Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity and the Consolidated Statement 
of Cash Flows dealt with by this Report 
are in agreement with the relevant books 
of account and records maintained for the 
purpose of preparation of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
 
(d) In our opinion, the aforesaid Consolidated 
Financial Statements comply with the 
Accounting Standards specified under 
Section 133 of the Act.
 
(e) On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors of the Holding 
Company as on March 31, 2023 taken on 
record by the Board of Directors of the 
Holding Company and the reports of the 
statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies, 
associate companies and  joint ventures 
incorporated in India, none of the directors 
of the Group companies, its associate 
companies and joint ventures incorporated 
in India is disqualified as on March 31, 2023 
from being appointed as a director in terms 
of Section 164(2) of the Act.
 
(f) With respect to the adequacy of internal 
financial controls with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the 
Group and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls, refer to our separate report 
in Annexure A.
 
(g) With respect to the other matters to be 
included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance 
with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and 
Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to 
the best of our information and according to 
the explanations given to us:
 
 
i. 
The Consolidated Financial Statements 
disclose the impact, if any, of pending 
litigations on the consolidated financial 
position of the Group, its associate 
companies and joint ventures– Refer 
Note 29(c) and 24 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
 
 
ii. The Group, its associate companies and 
joint ventures has made provision as at 
March 31, 2023, as required under the 
applicable law or accounting standards, 
for material foreseeable losses, if any, 
on long-term contracts. The Group, its 
associate companies and joint ventures 
did not have any derivative contracts 
as at March 31, 2023 .
 
 
iii. During the year ended March 31, 
2023, there were no amounts which 
were required to be transferred to 
the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund by the Holding Company, and 
its subsidiary companies, associate 
companies and joint ventures 
incorporated in India.
Independent Auditor’s Report

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 337
Annual Report 
2023
314
Financial Statements
 
 
iv. (a) The respective Managements 
of the Holding Company and its 
subsidiaries, associate companies 
and joint venture which are 
companies incorporated in India 
whose financial statements have 
been audited under the Act have 
represented to us and the other 
auditors of such subsidiaries, 
associate companies and joint 
venture respectively that, to the 
best of their knowledge and belief, 
other than as disclosed in the notes 
to the accounts, no funds (which 
are material either individually 
or in the aggregate) have been 
advanced or loaned or invested 
(either from borrowed funds 
or share premium or any other 
sources or kind of funds) by the 
Holding Company or any of such 
subsidiaries, associate companies 
and joint venture to or in any other 
person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), 
with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, directly 
or indirectly, lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in 
any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Holding Company 
or any of such subsidiaries, 
associate companies and joint 
venture (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security 
or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries (Refer Note 44(i) 
to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements).
 
 
 
(b) The respective Managements 
of the Holding Company and its 
subsidiaries, associate companies 
and joint venture which are 
companies incorporated in India 
whose financial statements have 
been audited under the Act have 
represented to us and the other 
auditors of such subsidiaries, 
associate companies and joint 
venture respectively that, to the 
best of their knowledge and belief, 
other than as disclosed in the notes 
to the accounts, no funds (which are 
material either individually or in the 
aggregate) have been received by 
the Holding Company or any of such 
subsidiaries, associate companies 
and joint venture from any person(s) 
or entity(ies), including foreign 
entities (“Funding Parties”), with the 
understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, that the 
Holding Company or any of such 
subsidiaries, associate companies 
and joint venture shall, directly or 
indirectly, lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in 
any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Party 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provide any guarantee, security or 
the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries (Refer Note 44(i) to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements).
 
 
 
(c) Based on the audit procedures, 
that has been considered 
reasonable and appropriate in 
the circumstances, performed 
by us and those performed by 
Independent Auditor’s Report

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 338
Annual Report 
2023
315
Financial Statements
the auditors of the subsidiaries, 
associate companies and joint 
venture which are companies 
incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been 
audited under the Act, nothing 
has come to our or other auditor’s 
notice that has caused us or the 
other auditors to believe that the 
representations under sub-clause 
(i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e) contain any 
material misstatement.
 
 
v. The Holding Company, its subsidiary 
companies, associate companies and 
joint venture, has not declared or paid 
any dividend during the year. 
 
 
vi. As proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 (as amended), 
which provides for books of account to 
have the feature of audit trail, edit log 
and related  matters in the accounting 
software used by the Group, associate 
companies and joint ventures, is 
applicable to the Group, associate 
companies and joint ventures only with 
effect from financial year beginning 
April 1, 2023, the reporting under 
clause (g) of Rule 11 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as 
amended), is currently not applicable
20. The Group, its associate companies and joint 
venture have paid/ provided for managerial 
remuneration in accordance with the requisite 
approvals mandated by the provisions of 
Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act.
Independent Auditor’s Report
 
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
 
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
	
Amitesh Dutta
 
Partner
Place: Gurugram 
Membership Number: 058507
Date: May 5, 2023 
UDIN: 23058507BGYAXX1373

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 339
Annual Report 
2023
316
Financial Statements
Annexure A to Independent Auditor’s Report
Referred to in paragraph 19(f) of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of 
One 97 Communications Limited on the Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year 
ended March 31, 2023
Report on the Internal Financial Controls 
with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements under clause (i) of sub-
section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
1. In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements of the Company as of and 
for the year ended March 31, 2023, we have 
audited the internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements of One 97 
Communications Limited (hereinafter referred 
to as “the Holding Company”) and its subsidiary 
companies, its associate companies and joint 
venture, which are companies incorporated in 
India, as of that date. Reporting under clause 
(i) of sub section 3 of Section 143 of the Act in 
respect of the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements 
is not applicable to 5 associates incorporated in 
India namely Paytm Insuretech Private Limited, 
Foster Payment Networks Private Limited, 
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited, 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited and 
Socomo Technologies Private Limited, pursuant 
to MCA notification GSR 583(E) dated June 13, 
2017.
Management’s Responsibility for 
Internal Financial Controls
2. The respective Board of Directors of the 
Holding Company, its subsidiary companies, 
its associate companies and joint venture, to 
whom reporting under clause (i) of sub section 
3 of Section 143 of the Act in respect of the 
adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements is 
applicable, which are companies incorporated 
in India, are responsible for establishing and 
maintaining internal financial controls based on 
internal control over financial reporting criteria 
established by the Company considering the 
essential components of internal control stated 
in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal 
Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
(“the Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). 
These responsibilities include the design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient 
conduct of its business, including adherence 
to the respective company’s policies, the 
safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and 
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, 
and the timely preparation of reliable financial 
information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
3. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on 
the Company's internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements based on our 
audit. We conducted our audit in accordance 
with the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI 
and the Standards on Auditing deemed to 
be prescribed under Section 143(10) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable 
to an audit of internal financial controls, both 
applicable to an audit of internal financial 
controls and both issued by the ICAI. Those 
Standards and the Guidance Note require that 
we comply with ethical requirements and plan 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 340
Annual Report 
2023
317
Financial Statements
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to financial 
statements was established and maintained 
and if such controls operated effectively in 
all material respects.
4. Our audit involves performing procedures to 
obtain audit evidence about the adequacy 
of the internal financial controls system 
with reference to financial statements and 
their operating effectiveness. Our audit of 
internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements included obtaining an 
understanding of internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, and testing and evaluating the design 
and operating effectiveness of internal 
control based on the assessed risk. The 
procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the 
risks of material misstatement of the financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5. We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained and the audit evidence obtained by 
the other auditors in terms of their reports 
referred to in the Other Matters paragraph 
below is sufficient and appropriate to provide 
a basis for our audit opinion on the Holding 
Company’s internal financial controls system 
with reference to consolidated financial 
statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls 
with reference to financial statements
6. A company's internal financial control with 
reference to financial statements is a process 
designed to provide reasonable assurance 
regarding the reliability of financial reporting 
and the preparation of financial statements 
for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles. 
A company's internal financial control with 
reference to financial statements includes 
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to 
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable 
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of 
the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance 
that transactions are recorded as necessary 
to permit preparation of financial statements 
in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles, and that receipts and 
expenditures of the company are being made 
only in accordance with authorisations of 
management and directors of the company; 
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorised 
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's 
assets that could have a material effect on the 
financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial 
Controls with reference to financial 
statements
7. Because of the inherent limitations of internal 
financial controls with reference to financial 
statements, including the possibility of 
collusion or improper management override of 
controls, material misstatements due to error 
or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial 
statements to future periods are subject to 
the risk that the internal financial control with 
reference to financial statements may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, 
or that the degree of compliance with the 
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Annexure A to Independent Auditor’s Report

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 341
Annual Report 
2023
318
Financial Statements
Opinion
8. In our opinion, the Holding Company, its 
subsidiary companies, its associate companies 
and joint venture, which are companies 
incorporated in India, have, in all material 
respects, an adequate internal financial 
controls system with reference to financial 
statements and such internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements were 
operating effectively as at March 31, 2023, 
based on the internal control over financial 
reporting criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note 
issued by the ICAI.
Other Matters
9. Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)
(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating 
effectiveness of the internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements insofar 
as it relates to 7 subsidiary companies and 2 
associate companies, which are companies 
incorporated in India, is based on the 
corresponding reports of the auditors of such 
companies incorporated in India. Our opinion 
is not modified in respect of this matter.
Annexure A to Independent Auditor’s Report
 
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
 
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
	
Amitesh Dutta
 
Partner
Place: Gurugram 
Membership Number: 058507
Date: May 5, 2023 
UDIN: 23058507BGYAXX1373

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 342
Annual Report 
2023
319
Financial Statements
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report
Referred to in paragraph 18 of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of 
One 97 Communications Limited on the Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year 
ended March 31, 2023
I. As required by paragraph 3(xxi) of the CARO 2020, we report that the auditors of the following 
companies have given qualification or adverse remarks in their CARO report on the standalone/ 
consolidated financial statements of the respective companies included in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Holding Company:
1. Paytm Services Private Limited (CIN U74110KA2016PTC094535) (Subsidiary) vide auditor’s report 
dated April 28, 2023 which is reproduced as under:
vii (a)  According to the information and explanations given to us and the records of the Company 
examined by us, in our opinion, except for dues in respect of provident fund, the Company is 
regular in depositing undisputed statutory dues, including employees’ state insurance, income 
tax, professional tax goods and services tax and other material statutory dues, as applicable, 
with the appropriate authorities. The extent of the arrears of statutory dues outstanding as 
at March 31, 2023, for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable 
are as follows:
Name of the statute
Nature of 
dues
Amount
(Rs.in
Lakhs)*
Period to which
the amount 
relates
Due date
Date of 
Payment
The Employee's 
Provident Funds and 
Miscellaneous
Provisions Act,1956 
Provident
Fund  
0.50 April 2022
15 May 2022
25 April 2023
0.41 May 2022
15 June 2022
25 April 2023
0.80 June 2022
15 July 2022
25 April 2023
0.57 July 2022
15 August 
2022
25 April 2023
1.55 August 2022
15 September 
2022
25 April 2023
 
 
*Also, refer note 16 to the financial statements.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 343
Annual Report 
2023
320
Financial Statements
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report
Name of the Entity
 Amount Due date
Extent of delay
Remarks, if any
Fincollect Services 
Private Limited
1,412,720 Various dates
More than one day
Name of the statute
Nature of 
dues
Amount 
(in INR 
thousands)
Period to 
which the 
amount relates
Due date
Date of 
Payment
The Employee's 
Provident Funds 
and Miscellaneous 
Provisions Act,1956
Provident 
Fund*
3.45 April 2022
May 15, 2022
Not yet paid
3.45 May 2022
June 15, 2022 Not yet paid
3.45 June 2022
July 15, 2022
Not yet paid
3.45 July 2022
August 15, 
2022
Not yet paid
6.15 August 2022
September 
15, 2022
Not yet paid
2. Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited (CIN U22130DL2007PTC158782) (Subsidiary) 
vide auditor’s report dated April 28, 2023 which is reproduced as under:
vii (a) According to the information and explanations given to us and the records of the Company 
examined by us, in our opinion, except for dues in respect of provident fund, the Company is 
regular in depositing undisputed statutory dues, including income tax, employees’ state insurance, 
goods and services tax and other material statutory dues, as applicable, with the appropriate 
authorities. The extent of the arrears of statutory dues outstanding as at March 31, 2023, for a 
period of more than six months from the date they became payable are as follows:
 
 
* Refer note 3.18 to the financial statement.
 
 
Also, refer note 11(b)(ii) to the financial statements regarding management's assessment on 
certain matters relating to provident fund. 
3. Urja Money Private Limited (CIN U93000MH2012PTC237284) (Subsidiary) vide auditor’s report 
dated April 21, 2023 which is reproduced as under:
iii (c) In respect of loan(s) granted to companies, the schedule of repayment of principal and 
payment of interest has been stipulated and the repayment or receipts are regular except in 
the following cases:

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 344
Annual Report 
2023
321
Financial Statements
4. One 97 Communications Limited (CIN L72200DL2000PLC108985) (Holding company) vide our 
report dated May 5, 2023 which is reproduced as under:
iii (c) In respect of the loans granted in previous years, the schedule of repayment of principal and 
payment of interest has been stipulated by the Company. Except for the following instances, 
the parties are repaying the principal amounts, as stipulated, and are also regular in payment 
of interest as applicable.
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report
Name of the entity
Amount (including 
accrued interest)
(INR million)
Due Date
Extent of 
delay
Remarks 
(if any)
Little Internet Private Limited
80 Refer Note 
1 below 
Refer Note 
1 below
 Refer Note 
1 below
Arthimpact Finserve Private 
Limited 
234 Refer Note 
2 below
Refer Note 
2 below
Refer Note 
2 below
Urja Money Private Limited 
11 Refer Note 
3 below
Refer Note 
3 below
Refer Note 
3 below
Robust Infocom Private Limited
191 Refer Note 
4 below
Refer Note 
4 below
Refer Note 
4 below
Rooter Sports Technologies 
Private Limited
47 Refer Note 
5 below
Refer Note 
5 below
Refer Note 
5 below
 
 
Note 1: The Company had given loan to Little Internet Private Limited (LIPL), a subsidiary 
company, in December 2019. As per the agreement, this was to be repaid in equated monthly 
installments starting from 7th month after disbursement date till 24th month from the 
disbursement date i.e. December 30, 2021. The company has extended the loan of INR 70 
Mn to December 29, 2024 through addendum dated November 3, 2022. 
 
 
Note 2: The Company had given loan of INR 330 million on March 25, 2021 with repayment 
date on June 30, 2021. The Company entered into an addendum no. 1 dated August 11, 2021, 
w.e.f July 1, 2021 to extend loan of INR 260 million to September 30, 2021. The Company 
further entered into an addendum no. 2 dated December 1, 2021, w.e.f October 1, 2021 to 
extend loan of INR 234 million to December 31, 2021.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 345
Annual Report 
2023
322
Financial Statements
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report
Name of the parties
Aggregate amount dues 
renewed or extended or 
settled by fresh loans 
(INR million)
Percentage of the aggregate to the 
total loans or advances in the nature 
of loans granted during the year
Urja Money Private Limited
11
Not applicable as no loans or 
advances in the nature of loans 
granted during the year
Little Internet Private Limited
80
Rooter Sports Technologies 
Private Limited
47
 
 
Note 3: The Company had given loan of INR 10 million to Urja Money Private Limited, a subsidiary 
company in February 2021 which was to be repaid in one year from the disbursement date. 
The Company has entered into an addendum dated April 13, 2022 effective February 10, 2022. 
As per the addendum, term of loan has been extended to four years from the disbursement 
date.
 
 
Note 4: The Company had given loan in financial year 2018-19 which was repayable on demand 
while the interest was payable on a quarterly basis. The Company has demanded the principal 
repayment from the party in FY 2020-21.
 
 
Note 5: The Company had given loan of INR 40 million in FY 2021-22 for a period of 18 months. 
The Company has entered into an addendum dated March 24, 2023 effective December 
28, 2022. As per the addendum, term of loan has been extended to 30 months from the 
disbursement date.
iii (e) Following loans which had fallen due during the year were extended. Further, no fresh loans 
were granted to same parties to settle the existing overdue loans/advances in nature of loan.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 346
Annual Report 
2023
323
Financial Statements
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report
Name of the Company
Relationship
CIN
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited Associate
U74900KA2015PTC080961
Xceed I T Solution Private Limited
Subsidiary 
U72200DL2005PTC139611
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited
Associate
U72200DL2015PTC285987
Paytm General Insurance Limited
Associate
U67200DL2018PLC329710
Paytm Life Insurance Limited
Associate
U67200DL2018PLC329711
II. The statutory audit report on the financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023 of 
following companies has not been issued until the date of this report. Accordingly, no comments 
for the said associate have been included for the purpose of reporting under this clause.
 
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
 
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
	
Amitesh Dutta
 
Partner
Place: Gurugram 
Membership Number: 058507
Date: May 5, 2023 
UDIN: 23058507BGYAXX1373

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 347
Annual Report 
2023
324
Financial Statements
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Consolidated Balance Sheet (Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
3(a)
 8,293 
 5,616 
Right-of-use-assets
3(b)
 2,883 
 2,945 
Capital work-in-progress
3(c)
 72 
 102 
Goodwill
4
 443 
 443 
Other intangible assets
4
 469 
 135 
Intangible assets under development
3(d)
 42 
 18 
Financial assets
 
Investment in joint ventures
5(a)
 - 
 - 
 
Investment in associates
5(b)
 2,518 
 2,233 
 
Other investments
6(b)
 13,247 
 10,062 
 
Loans
6(c)
 1,507 
 1,362 
 
Other financial assets
6(d)
 1,237 
 42,131 
Current tax assets
 5,769 
 4,317 
Deferred tax assets
28
 85 
 70 
Other non-current assets 
8
 3,202 
 3,032 
Total Non-Current Assets
 39,767 
 72,466 
Current assets
Financial assets
 
Other investments
6(a), 6(b)
 11,206 
 - 
 
Trade receivables 
7
 12,528 
 7,464 
 
Cash and cash equivalents
9(a)
 33,120 
 13,790 
 
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
9(b)
 37,275 
 38,230 
 
Loans
6(c)
 57 
 514 
 
Other financial assets
6(d)
 33,427 
 32,295 
Other current assets 
8
 12,278 
 15,157 
Total Current Assets
 139,891 
 107,450 
TOTAL ASSETS
 179,658 
 179,916 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
Equity share capital
10(a)
 634 
 649 
Other equity
10(b)
 129,522 
 140,867 
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
 130,156 
 141,516 
Non-controlling interests
 (227)
 (221)
Total Equity
 129,929 
 141,295 
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
 
Lease liabilities
3(b)
 1,876 
 1,822 
Deferred tax liabilities
28
 - 
 2 
Contract liabilities
13(b)
 2,367 
 3,165 
Provisions
11
 617 
 307 
Total Non-Current Liabilities
 4,860 
 5,296 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
 
Borrowings
12(a)
 20 
 1 
 
Lease liabilities
3(b)
 337 
 392 
 
Trade payables
 
 
(a) Total Outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises 
12(b)
 417 
 229 
 
 
(b) Total Outstanding dues other than (a) above 
12(b)
 8,172 
 7,285 
 
Other financial liabilities
12(c)
 27,586 
 18,005 
Contract liabilities
13(b)
 2,573 
 2,076 
Other current liabilities 
13(a)
 4,189 
 4,514 
Provisions
11
 1,575 
 823 
Total Current Liabilities
 44,869 
 33,325 
Total Liabilities
 49,729 
 38,621 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
 179,658 
 179,916 
The above Consolidated Balance Sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Consolidated Balance Sheet referred to in our report of even date.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP 
Firm registration number: 012754N/ N500016
Amitesh Dutta | Partner 
Membership No: 058507 
Place: Gurugram | Date: May 5, 2023
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of One 97 Communications Limited
Vijay Shekhar Sharma | Chairman, 
Madhur Deora | Executive Director, 
Managing Director and CEO 
President & Group Chief Financial Officer 
DIN No. 00466521 
DIN No. 07720350 
Place: New Delhi | Date: May 5, 2023 
Place: Mumbai | Date: May 5, 2023

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 348
Annual Report 
2023
325
Financial Statements
Notes
For the year ended  
March 31, 2023
For the year ended  
March 31, 2022
Income
Revenue from operations
14
 79,903 
 49,742 
Other income 
15
 4,097 
 2,901 
Total income
 84,000 
 52,643 
Expenses
Payment processing charges
 29,577 
 27,538 
Marketing and promotional expenses
 10,764 
 8,554 
Employee benefits expense
16
 37,783 
 24,319 
Software, cloud and data centre expenses
 6,939 
 4,999 
Depreciation and amortization expense
17
 4,853 
 2,473 
Finance costs
18
 233 
 394 
Other expenses 
19
 11,155 
 7,734 
Total expenses
 101,304 
 76,011 
Loss before share of profit/ (loss) of associates / joint ventures, exceptional 
items and tax
 (17,304)
 (23,368)
Share of profit/ (loss) of associates / joint ventures
24
 (125)
 (459)
Loss before exceptional items and tax
(17,429)
 (23,827)
Exceptional items
20
 - 
 (24)
Loss before tax
(17,429)
 (23,851)
Income Tax expense
 
Current tax
28
 351 
 151 
 
Deferred tax expense/ (credit)
28
 (15)
 (38)
Total Tax expense
 336 
 113 
Loss for the year
 (17,765)
 (23,964)
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent years
 
Re-measurement gains/ (losses) on defined benefit plans
27
 (41)
 (21)
 
Changes in fair value of equity instruments at FVTOCI
 902 
 9,376 
 
Share of other comprehensive income of associates / joint ventures
24
 128 
 - 
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent period
 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations
 1,093 
 194 
Total Other Comprehensive Income/ (Loss) for the year
 2,082 
 9,549 
Total Comprehensive Income/ (Loss) for the year
 (15,683)
 (14,415)
Loss for the year
Attributable to:
 
Owners of the parent
 (17,759)
 (23,929)
 
Non-controlling interests
 (6)
 (35)
 (17,765)
 (23,964)
Other comprehensive income for the year
Attributable to:
 
Owners of the parent
 2,082 
 9,549 
 
Non-controlling interests
 * 
 * 
 2,082 
 9,549 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
Attributable to:
 
Owners of the parent
 (15,677)
 (14,380)
 
Non-controlling interests
 (6)
 (35)
 (15,683)
 (14,415)
Earnings per share (INR per share of INR 1 each)
Basic
21
 (27)
 (38)
Diluted
21
 (27)
 (38)
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
The above Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss referred to in our report of even date.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP 
Firm registration number: 012754N/ N500016
Amitesh Dutta | Partner 
Membership No: 058507 
Place: Gurugram | Date: May 5, 2023
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of One 97 Communications Limited
Vijay Shekhar Sharma | Chairman, 
Madhur Deora | Executive Director, 
Managing Director and CEO 
President & Group Chief Financial Officer 
DIN No. 00466521 
DIN No. 07720350 
Place: New Delhi | Date: May 5, 2023 
Place: Mumbai | Date: May 5, 2023

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 349
Annual Report 
2023
326
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
a)	Equity Share Capital
Equity shares - issued, subscribed and fully paid
No. of Shares
Amount
At April 1, 2021#
 60,260,013 
 605 
Shares issued during the year##
 38,646,058 
 39 
Shares issued during the year - ESOP
 4,627,616 
 5 
Adjustment for Sub-Division of Equity Shares**
 543,217,887 
 - 
Impact of derecognition of trust
 1,809,840 
 - 
At March 31, 2022
 648,561,414 
 649 
Shares issued during the year - ESOP
 793,549 
 1 
Shares buy-back (Refer note 30)
 (15,566,746)
 (16)
At March 31, 2023
 633,788,217 
 634 
# Net of treasury shares, April 1, 2021: 222,391 of face value of INR 10 each, at nil cost through Paytm 
Associate Benefit Welfare Trust (formerly known as One97 Employee Welfare Trust)
## Shares issued during the year ended March 31, 2022 includes 41,407 shares of face value of INR 
10 each issued out of treasury shares
**Pursuant to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Holding Company 
held on June 30, 2021, each equity share of face value of INR 10 per share was sub-divided into 
ten equity shares of face value of INR 1 per share, with effect from record date, i.e., June 30, 2021.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 350
Annual Report 
2023
327
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Attributable to owners of the parent 
Non-
controlling 
interests
Total 
Other 
Equity
Reserves and Surplus
Other reserves
Total
Securities 
Premium
Retained 
Earnings
ESOP 
Reserve
Capital 
Redemption 
Reserve
FVTOCI FCTR#
As at April 1, 2021
 2 
 189,252  (128,717)
 4,264 
 - 
 (33)
 (25)
 64,743 
 (186)
 64,557 
Loss for the year
 - 
 - 
 (23,929)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  (23,929)
 (35)  (23,964)
Other comprehensive income 
 - 
 - 
 (21)
 - 
 - 
 9,376 
 194 
 9,549 
 * 
 9,549 
Total comprehensive income/(loss)
 - 
 - 
 (23,950)
 - 
 - 
 9,376 
 194  (14,380)
 (35)
 (14,415)
Exercise of share options
 (2)
 2 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Adjustment on forfeiture of ESOP
 - 
 - 
 17 
 (17)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Adjustment on cancellation of ESOP
 - 
 - 
 106 
 (106)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Amount transferred to securities premium 
on exercise of ESOPs
 - 
 2,290 
 -  (2,290)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Share based payment expenses
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8,093 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8,093 
 - 
 8,093 
Share based payment reserve on account 
of joint ventures
 - 
 - 
 - 
 78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 78 
 - 
 78 
Share application money received 
(pending allotment)
 * 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 * 
 - 
 * 
Amount received on issue of shares
 - 
 83,023 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 83,023 
 - 
 83,023 
Acquisition of Non-controlling interest
 - 
 (1,401)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,401)
 - 
 (1,401)
Other adjustments (Refer note 10(b))
 - 
 - 
 711 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 711 
 - 
 711 
As at March 31, 2022
 * 
 273,166  (151,833)
 10,022 
 - 
 9,343 
 169  140,867 
 (221)
140,646 
Loss for the year
 - 
 - 
 (17,759)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  (17,759)
 (6)
 (17,765)
Other comprehensive income 
 - 
 - 
 (41)
 - 
 - 
 1,030 
 1,093 
 2,082 
 * 
 2,082 
Total comprehensive income/(loss)
 - 
 - 
 (17,800)
 - 
 - 
 1,030 
 1,093  (15,677)
 (6)  (15,683)
Exercise of share options
 * 
 * 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Adjustment on forfeiture of ESOP
 - 
 - 
 3 
 (3)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Adjustment on cancellation of ESOP
 - 
 - 
 12 
 (12)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Amount transferred to securities premium 
on exercise of ESOPs
 - 
 919 
 - 
 (919)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
b)	Other equity

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 351
Annual Report 
2023
328
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
b)	Other equity (Contd..)
Particulars
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Attributable to owners of the parent 
Non-
controlling 
interests
Total 
Other 
Equity
Reserves and Surplus
Other reserves
Total
Securities 
Premium
Retained 
Earnings
ESOP 
Reserve
Capital 
Redemption 
Reserve
FVTOCI FCTR#
Share based payment expenses
 - 
 - 
 - 
 14,553 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 14,553 
 - 
 14,553 
Share based payment reserve on account 
of joint ventures and associates
 - 
 - 
 - 
 321 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 321 
 - 
 321 
Share application money received 
(pending allotment)
 1 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1 
 - 
 1 
Amount received on issue of shares
 - 
 6 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6 
 - 
 6 
Buy-back of equity shares (including 
transaction cost) (Refer note 30)
 - 
 (8,568)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (8,568)
 - 
 (8,568)
Transfer on account of buy-back of 
equity shares (Refer note 30)
 - 
 (16)
 - 
 - 
 16 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Tax on buy-back of equity shares (Refer 
note 30)
 - 
 (1,977)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,977)
 - 
 (1,977)
Other adjustments (Refer note 10(b))
 - 
 - 
 (46)
 - 
 - 
 42 
 - 
 (4)
 - 
 (4)
As at March 31, 2023
 1 
 263,530 (169,664)
 23,962 
 16  10,415 
 1,262 
129,522
 (227)
 129,295 
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
# Foreign currency translation reserve
The above Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity referred to in our report of even date.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP 
Firm registration number: 012754N/ N500016
Amitesh Dutta | Partner 
Membership No: 058507 
Place: Gurugram | Date: May 5, 2023
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of One 97 Communications Limited
Vijay Shekhar Sharma | Chairman, 
Madhur Deora | Executive Director, 
Managing Director and CEO 
President & Group Chief Financial Officer 
DIN No. 00466521 
DIN No. 07720350 
Place: New Delhi | Date: May 5, 2023 
Place: Mumbai | Date: May 5, 2023

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 352
Annual Report 
2023
329
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes
For the year ended
March 31, 2023
For the year ended
March 31, 2022
Cash flow from operating activities:
Loss before tax
 (17,429)
 (23,851)
 
Depreciation and amortization expense
17
 4,853 
 2,473 
 
Interest income
15
 (2,778)
 (2,518)
 
Interest Income on unwinding of discount - financial assets 
measured at amortized cost
15
 (411)
 (92)
 
Interest on borrowing at amortized cost
18
 1 
 294 
 
Interest and finance charges on lease liabilities
18
 198 
 86 
 
(Gain)/ loss on lease termination/ modification (net)
 15 
 (3)
 
Trade receivables/ advances written off
19
 143 
 391 
 
Provision for advances
19
 73 
 62 
 
Loss allowance for financial assets
19
 794 
 432 
 
Liabilities no longer required written back
15
 (92)
 (19)
 
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets written off 
19
 17 
 11 
 
Impairment of goodwill 
20
 - 
 24 
 
Share based payment expenses
16
 14,558 
 8,093 
 
Provision for employee incentive
 (4)
 15 
 
Share of profit/ (loss) of associates/ joint ventures
24
 125 
 459 
 
Fair value gain on financial instruments measured at FVTPL (net)
15
 (609)
 (215)
 
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (net)
15
 (25)
 (7)
Operating loss before working capital changes
 (571)
 (14,365)
Working capital adjustments:
 
Increase/(decrease) in trade payables
 1,090 
 1,481 
 
Increase/(decrease) in provisions
 981 
 434 
 
Increase /(decrease) in other current liabilities and contract 
liabilities
 (626)
 1,412 
 
Increase/(decrease) in other financial liabilities
 9,415 
 13,338 
 
(Increase)/decrease in trade receivables
 (5,539)
 (3,192)
 
(Increase)/decrease in other financial assets
 (1,267)
 (9,187)
 
(Increase)/decrease in other current and non-current assets
 2,435 
 (805)
Cash generated from/ (used in) operations
 5,918 
 (10,884)
Tax paid, net of refunds
 (1,762)
 (1,479)
Net cash inflow/ (outflow) from operating activities (A)
 4,156 
 (12,363)
Cash flow from/ (used in) investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 (7,052)
 (5,071)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 
 85 
 27 
Investment in fixed and other deposits with bank
 (57,876)
 (96,322)
Maturity of bank deposits
 99,248 
 43,206 
Proceeds from repayment of inter corporate loans
 483 
 908 
Inter corporate loans given
 (10)
 (1,653)
Proceeds from sale of non-current investments
 - 
 13 
Payment for purchase of non-current investments
 (1,226)
 (261)
Proceeds from sale of current investments
 351,192 
 85,696 
Payment for purchase of current investments
 (361,669)
 (84,204)
Interest received
 3,080 
 2,775 
Net cash inflow/ (outflow) from investing activities (B)
 26,255 
 (54,886)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 353
Annual Report 
2023
330
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes
For the year ended
March 31, 2023
For the year ended
March 31, 2022
Cash flow from/ (used in) financing activities
Proceeds from issue of shares (including securities premium)
 7 
 83,067 
Share issue expenses
 - 
 (1,401)
Buy-back of equity shares (including transaction cost)
 (8,584)
 - 
Tax on buy-back of equity shares
 (1,977)
 - 
Share application money received during the year (pending 
allotment)
 1 
 * 
Net change in working capital demand loan 
 - 
 (435)
Received on recharge of ESOP cost to associates
 69 
 - 
Interest paid
 (199)
 (380)
Principal elements of lease payments
 (440)
 (316)
Net cash inflow/ (outflow) from financing activities (C)
 (11,123)
 80,535 
Net increase/ (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
 19,288 
 13,286 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 13,789 
 454 
Effect of exchange differences on restatement of foreign currency 
cash and cash equivalents
 23 
 49 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
 33,100 
 13,789 
Cash and cash equivalents as per above comprises of following
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Cash on hand 
 * 
 * 
Balance with banks 
- 
On current accounts 
 27,390 
 12,742 
- 
Deposits with original maturity of less than 3 months 
 5,730 
 1,048 
Cash and cash equivalents 
9(a)
 33,120 
 13,790 
Bank overdraft# 
12(a)
 (20)
 (1)
Cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of statement of cash 
flows
 33,100 
 13,789 
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
For non-cash additions and deletions in Right-of-use-assets and financing activities, refer note 3(b) and 12(a).
#Bank borrowings are generally considered to be financing activities. However, bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand 
and form an integral part of an entity's cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents.
The above Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows referred to in our report of even date.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP 
Firm registration number: 012754N/ N500016
Amitesh Dutta | Partner 
Membership No: 058507 
Place: Gurugram | Date: May 5, 2023
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of One 97 Communications Limited
Vijay Shekhar Sharma | Chairman, 
Madhur Deora | Executive Director, 
Managing Director and CEO 
President & Group Chief Financial Officer 
DIN No. 00466521 
DIN No. 07720350 
Place: New Delhi | Date: May 5, 2023 
Place: Mumbai | Date: May 5, 2023

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 354
Annual Report 
2023
331
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
1.	 Corporate information
 
These Consolidated Financial Statements 
(“Consolidated Financial Statements”) 
comprise the financial statements of One 
97 Communications Limited (“hereinafter 
referred to as the Holding Company”) and 
its subsidiaries, (the Holding Company and 
its subsidiaries together referred to as “the 
Group”), its joint ventures and associate 
companies for the year ended March 31, 2023.
 
One 97 Communications Limited is a public 
company domiciled in India and is incorporated 
under the provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 (“the Act”). The registered office of the 
Holding Company is located at 1st Floor, Devika 
Tower, Nehru Place, New Delhi - 110019. The 
principal place of business of the Group is 
in India. The equity shares of the Holding 
Company are listed on the National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”) and the 
BSE Limited (“BSE”) in India.
 
The Group is in the business of providing 
a) payment and financial services which 
primarily includes payment facilitator services, 
facilitation of consumer and merchant 
lending to consumers and merchants, 
wealth management etc. b) commerce and 
cloud services which primarily consists of 
aggregator for digital products, ticketing 
business, providing voice and messaging 
platforms to the telecom operators and 
enterprise customers and other businesses, 
etc.
 
These Consolidated Financial Statements 
were authorised for issue in accordance with 
a resolution of the Board of Directors on May 
5, 2023.
2.	Significant accounting policies
2.1 Basis of preparation
 
The Consolidated Financial Statements of 
the Group have been prepared in accordance 
with Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’) 
prescribed under Section 133 of the Act 
read with the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015 and other relevant 
provisions of the Act as amended from time 
to time.
 
The Consolidated Financial Statements 
have been prepared on a historical cost 
basis, except for certain financial assets 
and liabilities measured at fair value (refer 
accounting policies on financial instruments 
and Share-based payments).
 
Accounting policies have been consistently 
applied except where a newly issued 
accounting standard is initially adopted or a 
revision to an existing accounting standard 
requires a change in the accounting policy 
hitherto in use.
 
The Code on Social Security, 2020 (‘Code’) 
relating to employee benefits during 
employment and post employment benefits 
received Presidential assent in September 
2020. The Code has been published in the 
Gazette of India. However,the date on which 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 355
Annual Report 
2023
332
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
the Code will come into effect has not been 
notified. The Group will assess the impact of 
the Code when it comes into effect and will 
record any related impact in the period the 
Code becomes effective.
 
All the amounts included in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements are presented in Indian 
Rupees (‘Rupees’ or ‘Rs.’ or ‘INR’) and are 
rounded to the nearest millions, except per 
share data and unless stated otherwise.
	
Impact of COVID-19
 
The government has removed substantially 
all COVID-19 related restrictions gradually in 
a phased manner and the Group has seen 
improvement in its operations. The Group has 
made an assessment of the recoverability and 
carrying values of its assets as at the end of 
the current period and has concluded that 
there are no material adjustments required 
in the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Management believes that it has considered 
all the possible impact of known events arising 
from COVID-19 pandemic in the preparation of 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
	
New and amended standards 
adopted by the Company
 
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has vide 
notification dated March 23, 2022 notified 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Amendment Rules, 2022 which amends certain 
accounting standards, and are effective April 
1, 2022. These amendments did not have 
any impact on the amounts recognised in 
prior periods and current period, and are not 
expected to significantly affect the future 
periods.
	
New and amended standards issued 
but not effective
 
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has vide 
notification dated March 31, 2023 notified 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Amendment Rules, 2023 (the ‘Rules’) which 
amends certain accounting standards, and 
are effective April 1, 2023.
 
The Rules predominantly amend Ind AS 12, 
Income taxes, and Ind AS 1, Presentation of 
financial statements. The other amendments 
to Ind AS notified by these rules are primarily 
in the nature of clarifications.
 
The amendments clarify how companies 
account for deferred tax on transactions such 
as leases and decommissioning obligations. 
The amendments narrowed the scope 
of the recognition exemption so that it no 
longer applies to transactions that, on initial 
recognition, give rise to equal taxable and 
deductible temporary differences. The Group 
is evaluating the impact, if any, in its financial 
statements.
2.2 Business Combination and Goodwill
 
Business combinations (other than those under 
common control) are accounted for using the 
acquisition method under Ind AS 103. The cost 
of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate 
of the consideration transferred measured at 
acquisition date fair value. Acquisition-related 
costs are expensed as incurred.
 
At the acquisition date, the identifiable 
assets acquired and the liabilities assumed 
are recognised at their acquisition date fair 
values. However, the following assets and 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 356
Annual Report 
2023
333
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
liabilities acquired in a business combination 
are measured at the basis indicated below: 
 
• The assets or liabilities related to employee 
benefit arrangements are recognised and 
measured in accordance with Ind AS 19 
Employee Benefits.
 
• Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
recognized and measured in accordance 
with Ind AS 12 Income Taxes.
 
When the Group acquires a business, it 
assesses the financial assets and liabilities 
assumed for appropriate classification and 
designation in accordance with the contractual 
terms, economic circumstances and pertinent 
conditions as at the acquisition date. The 
consideration transferred by the acquirer is 
recognized at fair value at the acquisition 
date. Deferred consideration is classified as 
a liability under Ind AS 109 and is measured 
at amortized cost.
 
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the 
excess of the aggregate of the consideration 
transferred over the net identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed. After initial 
recognition, goodwill is measured at cost 
less any accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually 
or more frequently if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that they might be 
impaired.
 
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill 
acquired in a business combination is, from 
the acquisition date, allocated to each of 
the Group’s cash-generating units that are 
expected to benefit from the combination, 
irrespective of whether other assets or 
liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those 
units.
 
A cash generating unit to which goodwill 
has been allocated is tested for impairment 
annually, or more frequently when there is an 
indication that the unit may be impaired. If the 
recoverable amount of the cash generating 
unit is less than its carrying amount, the 
impairment loss is allocated first to reduce 
the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated 
to the unit and then to the other assets of the 
unit pro rata based on the carrying amount of 
each asset in the unit. Any impairment loss 
for goodwill is recognised in statement of 
profit or loss. An impairment loss recognised 
for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent 
periods.
2.3 Basis of consolidation
 
Subsidiaries are all entities (including 
structured entities) over which the Group has 
Control. The determination of control for the 
purpose of consolidation is done as per Ind 
AS 110. Control is achieved when the Group 
is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns 
from its involvement with the investee and has 
the ability to affect those returns through its 
power over the investee.
 
Specifically, the Group controls an investee 
if and only if the Group has:
 
a) Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights 
that give it the current ability to direct the 
relevant activities of the investee)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 357
Annual Report 
2023
334
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
b) Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from 
its involvement with the investee, and
 
c) The ability to use its power over the 
investee to affect its returns
 
Generally, there is a presumption that a 
majority of voting rights result in control. 
To support this presumption and when the 
Group has less than a majority of the voting 
or similar rights of an investee, the Group 
considers all relevant facts and circumstances 
in assessing whether it has power over an 
investee, including:
 
a) The contractual arrangement with the 
other vote holders of the investee
 
b) Rights arising from other contractual 
arrangements
 
c) The Group’s voting rights and potential 
voting rights
 
d) The size of the group’s holding of voting 
rights relative to the size and dispersion 
of the holdings of the other voting rights 
holders
 
The Group re-assesses whether or not it 
controls an investee if facts and circumstances 
indicate that there are changes to one or more 
of the three elements of control. Consolidation 
of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains 
control over the subsidiary and ceases when 
the Group loses control of the subsidiary. 
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of 
a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during 
the year are included in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements from the date the Group 
gains control until the date the Group ceases 
to control the subsidiary. 
 
Consolidated Financial Statements are 
prepared using uniform accounting policies 
for like transactions and other events in 
similar circumstances. If a member of the 
group uses accounting policies other than 
those adopted in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements for like transactions and events in 
similar circumstances, appropriate adjustments 
are made to that group member’s Financial 
Statements in preparing the Consolidated 
Financial Statements to ensure conformity 
with the group’s accounting policies.
 
The Financial Statements of all entities used 
for the purpose of consolidation are drawn up 
to same reporting date as that of the Group. 
When the end of the reporting period of the 
parent is different from that of a subsidiary, 
the subsidiary prepares, for consolidation 
purposes, additional financial information as 
of the same date as the consolidated financial 
statements of the parent to enable the parent 
to consolidate the financial information of the 
subsidiary, unless it is impracticable to do so.
	
Consolidation procedures:
 
(a) Combine like items of assets, liabilities, 
equity, income, expenses and cash flows 
of the parent with those of its subsidiaries. 
For this purpose, income and expenses of 
the subsidiary are based on the amounts 
of the assets and liabilities recognised in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements at 
the acquisition date.
 
(b) Offset (eliminate) the carrying amount of 
the parent’s investment in each subsidiary 
and the parent’s portion of equity of each 
subsidiary. 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 358
Annual Report 
2023
335
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
(c) Eliminate in full intragroup assets and 
liabilities, equity, income, expenses and 
cash flows relating to transactions between 
entities of the group (profits or losses 
resulting from intragroup transactions that 
are recognised in Fixed assets, such as 
inventory and fixed assets, are eliminated 
in full). Intragroup losses may indicate an 
impairment that requires recognition in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. Ind 
AS12 Income Taxes applies to temporary 
differences that arise from the elimination 
of profits and losses resulting from 
intragroup transactions.
 
Profit or loss and each component of other 
comprehensive income (OCI) are attributed to 
the equity holders of the parent of the Group 
and to the non-controlling interests, even if 
this results in the non-controlling interests 
having a deficit balance. When necessary, 
adjustments are made to the financial 
statements of subsidiaries to bring their 
accounting policies into line with the Group’s 
accounting policies. All intra-group assets 
and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and 
cash flows relating to transactions between 
members of the Group are eliminated in full 
on consolidation. The Group measures non-
controlling interests at their proportion of the 
fair value of the identifiable net assets. 
2.4 Investment in associates and joint 
ventures
 
An associate is an entity over which the Group 
has significant influence. Significant influence 
is the power to participate in the financial and 
operating policy decisions of the investee, but 
is not control or joint control.
 
The considerations made in determining whether 
significant influence is similar to those necessary 
to determine control over the Subsidiaries.
 
The Group’s investments in its associate 
are accounted for using the equity method. 
Under the equity method, the investment in 
an associate is initially recognised at cost. 
 
Interests in joint ventures are accounted for 
using the equity method, after initially being 
recognised at cost in the consolidated balance 
sheet. 
 
The carrying amount of the investment is 
adjusted to recognise changes in the Group’s 
share of net assets of the associate or joint 
venture since the acquisition date. Goodwill 
relating to the associate or joint venture 
is included in the carrying amount of the 
investment and is not tested for impairment 
individually.
 
The consolidated statement of profit and loss 
reflects the Group’s share of the results of 
operations of the associate or joint venture. 
Any change in OCI of the associate or joint 
venture is presented as part of the Group’s 
OCI. In addition, when there has been a 
change recognised directly in the equity of 
the associate or joint venture, the Group 
recognises its share of any changes, when 
applicable, in the statement of changes in 
equity. Unrealised gains and losses resulting 
from transactions between the Group and 
the associate or joint venture are eliminated 
to the extent of the interest in the associate 
or joint venture.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 359
Annual Report 
2023
336
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
If an entity’s share of losses of an associate or 
joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in 
the associate or joint venture (which includes 
any long term interest that, in substance, 
form part of the Group’s net investment in the 
associate), the entity discontinues recognising 
its share of further losses. Additional losses are 
recognised only to the extent that the Group 
has incurred legal or constructive obligations 
or made payments on behalf of the associate 
or joint venture. If the associate or joint venture 
subsequently reports profits, the entity resumes 
recognising its share of those profits only after 
its share of the profits equals the share of losses 
not recognised.
 
The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit 
or loss of an associate or joint venture is 
shown on the face of the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss. The financial 
statements of the associate are prepared for 
the same reporting period as the Group. When 
necessary, adjustments are made to bring the 
accounting policies in line with those of the 
Group. 
 
After application of the equity method, the 
Group determines whether it is necessary 
to recognise an impairment loss on its 
investment in its associate or joint venture. 
At each reporting date, the Group determines 
whether there is objective evidence that the 
investment in the associate or joint venture 
is impaired.
 
If there is such evidence, the Group calculates 
the amount of impairment as the difference 
between the recoverable amount of the 
associate or joint venture and its carrying 
value, and then recognises the loss as 
‘exceptional items’ in the consolidated 
statement of profit or loss.
 
Upon loss of significant influence over the 
associate, the Group measures and recognises 
any retained investment at its fair value. Any 
difference between the carrying amount of the 
associate upon loss of significant influence 
and the fair value of the retained investment 
and proceeds from disposal is recognised in 
consolidated statement of profit or loss.
2.5 Summary of significant accounting 
policies
	
a.	 Current versus non-current 
classification
 
 
The Group presents assets and liabilities 
in the consolidated balance sheet based 
on current / non-current classification.
 
 
An asset is classified as current when it 
is expected to be realised or intended to 
be sold or consumed in normal operating 
cycle, held primarily for the purpose of 
trading, expected to be realised within 
twelve months after the reporting period, 
or cash or cash equivalent unless restricted 
from being exchanged or used to settle a 
liability for at least twelve months after 
the reporting period. All other assets are 
classified as non-current.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 360
Annual Report 
2023
337
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
 
A liability is classified as current when it is 
expected to be settled in normal operating 
cycle, it is held primarily for the purpose 
of trading, it is due to be settled within 
twelve months after the reporting period, 
or there is no unconditional right to defer 
the settlement of the liability for at least 
twelve months after the reporting period. 
The Group classifies all other liabilities as 
non-current.
 
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities, are 
classified as non-current assets and 
liabilities.
 
 
The operating cycle is the time between 
the acquisition of assets for processing 
and their realisation in cash and cash 
equivalents. The Group has identified 
twelve months as its operating cycle. 
	
b.	 Foreign currencies
 
 
Functional and presentation currency
 
 
Items included in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Group are measured 
using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which it operates i.e. 
the “functional currency”. The Group’s 
consolidated financial statements are 
presented in INR, which is also the Holding 
Company’s functional currency.
 
 
Transactions and balances
 
 
Transactions in foreign currencies are 
initially recorded by the Group’s entities 
at their respective functional currency at 
exchange rates prevailing at the date the 
transaction first qualifies for recognition.
 
 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies are translated at the 
functional currency spot rates of exchange 
at the reporting date. Exchange differences 
arising on settlement or translation of 
monetary items are recognised in profit 
or loss.
 
 
Non-monetary items that are measured 
in terms of historical cost in a foreign 
currency are translated using the exchange 
rates at the dates of the initial transactions. 
 
 
Non-monetary items measured at fair value 
in a foreign currency are translated using 
the exchange rates at the date when the 
fair value is determined. The gain or loss 
arising on translation of non-monetary 
items measured at fair value is treated 
in line with the recognition of the gain 
or loss on the change in fair value of the 
item (i.e., translation differences on items 
whose fair value gain or loss is recognised 
in other comprehensive income (“OCI”) or 
consolidated statement of profit and loss, 
are also recognised in OCI or consolidated 
statement of profit and loss, respectively).
	
	
Group companies
 
 
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities 
of foreign operations are translated into 
INR at the rate of exchange prevailing at 
the reporting date and their consolidated 
statements of profit and loss are translated 
at exchange rates prevailing at the dates of 
the transactions. The exchange differences 
arising on translation for consolidation 
are recognised in OCI. On disposal of a 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 361
Annual Report 
2023
338
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
foreign operation, the component of OCI 
relating to that particular foreign operation 
is recognised in profit or loss.
	
c.	 Fair value measurement
 
 
The Group measures certain financial 
instruments (e.g. investments) at fair value 
at each balance sheet date. 
 
 
Fair value is the price that would be 
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer 
a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement 
date. 
 
 
The fair value measurement is based on 
the presumption that the transaction to sell 
the asset or transfer the liabilities takes 
place either in the principal market for the 
asset or liability or in absence of principal 
market, in the most advantageous market 
for the asset or liability.
 
 
A fair value measurement of a non-
financial asset takes into account a market 
participant’s ability to generate economic 
benefits by using the asset in its highest 
and best use or by selling it to another 
market participant that would use the 
asset in its highest and best use.
 
 
The Group uses valuation techniques that 
are appropriate in the circumstances and 
for which sufficient data are available to 
measure fair value, maximising the use of 
relevant observable inputs and minimising 
the use of unobservable inputs.
 
 
All assets and liabilities for which fair 
value is measured or disclosed in the 
consolidated financial statements are 
categorised within the fair value hierarchy, 
described as follows, based on the lowest 
level input that is significant to the fair 
value measurement as a whole:
 
 
Level 1- Quoted (Unadjusted) marked 
prices in the active markets for identical 
assets or liabilities
 
 
Level 2- Valuation techniques for which 
the lowest level input that is significant 
to the fair value measurement is directly 
or indirectly observable
 
 
Level 3- Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is significant to the 
fair value measurement is unobservable.
 
 
For assets and liabilities that are recognised 
in the consolidated financial statements on 
a recurring basis, the Group determines 
whether transfers have occurred between 
levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing 
categorisation (based on the lowest level 
input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole) at the end of 
each reporting period.
 
 
At each reporting date, the management 
analyses the movements in the values of 
assets and liabilities which are required 
to be re-measured or re-assessed as per 
the Group’s accounting policies. For this 
analysis, the management or its expert 
verifies the major inputs applied in the 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 362
Annual Report 
2023
339
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
latest valuation by agreeing the information 
in the valuation computation to contracts 
and other relevant documents.
 
 
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, 
the Group has determined classes of 
assets and liabilities on the basis of the 
nature, characteristics and risks of the 
asset or liability and the level of the fair 
value hierarchy as explained above.
	
d.	 Revenue recognition
 
 
Revenue is measured based on the 
consideration specified in a contract with a 
customer (transaction price) net of variable 
consideration e.g. discounts, volume 
rebates, any payments made to a customer 
(unless the payment is for a distinct good 
or service received from the customer) and 
excludes amounts collected on behalf of 
third parties. The Group recognises revenue 
when it transfers control over a product 
or service to a customer. Revenue is only 
recognised to the extent that it is highly 
probable that a significant reversal will not 
occur.
 
 
The Group provides incentives to its users 
in various forms including cashbacks. 
Incentives which are consideration payable 
to the customer that are not in exchange 
for a distinct good or service are generally 
recognized as a reduction of revenue.
 
 
Where the Group acts as an agent for selling 
goods or services, only the commission 
income is included within revenue. The 
specific revenue recognition criteria 
described below must also be met before 
revenue is recognized. Typically, the Group 
has a right to payment before or at the 
point that services are delivered. Cash 
received before the services are delivered 
is recognised as a contract liability. The 
amount of consideration does not contain a 
significant financing component as payment 
terms are less than one year. 
	
	
Sale of services 
 
 
Revenue from services is recognized 
when the control in services is transferred 
as per the terms of the agreement with 
customer i.e. as and when services are 
rendered. Revenues are disclosed net of 
the Goods and Services Tax charged on 
such services. In terms of the contract, 
excess of revenue over the billed at the 
year-end is carried in the balance sheet 
as trade receivables where the amount 
is recoverable from the customer without 
any future performance obligation and the 
Group has unconditional right over such 
consideration (i.e. if only the passage of 
time is required before payment of such 
consideration is due). Cash received before 
the services are delivered is recognised as 
a contract liability.
	
	
Commission
 
 
The Group facilitates recharge of talk time, 
bill payments, availability of bus tickets 
and sale of deal coupons and earns 
commission for the respective services. 
Commission income is recognized when 
the control in services is transferred to the 
customer when the services have been 
provided by the Group.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 363
Annual Report 
2023
340
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
	
	
Service fees from merchants
 
 
The Group earns service fee from 
merchants and recognizes such revenue 
when the control in services have been 
transferred by the Group i.e. as and when 
services have been provided by the Group. 
Such service fee is generally determined as 
a percentage of transaction value executed 
by the merchants. Amount received by the 
Group pending settlement are disclosed 
as payable to the merchants under other 
financial liabilities.
	
	
Revenue from broking activities
 
 
Revenue from broking activities, fees and 
delayed payment charges is recognized on 
the trade date of transaction (net of Goods 
& service tax (GST), securities transaction 
tax, stamp duties and other levies by SEBI 
and stock exchanges). Revenue from 
platform fees are received periodically 
but are recognized as earned on pro-rata 
basis over the term of the contract i.e. one 
year.
	
	
Government Grants
 
 
The Group recognises government grants 
only when there is reasonable assurance 
that the conditions attached to them will 
be complied with, and the grants will be 
received. Government grants related to 
revenue are recognized on a systematic 
basis in the Consolidated Statement of 
Profit and Loss as other operating revenue 
over the periods necessary to match them 
with the related costs, if any, which they 
are intended to compensate.
	
	
Interest income
 
 
For all debt instruments measured either at 
amortised cost or at fair value through other 
comprehensive income, interest income is 
recorded using the effective interest rate 
(EIR). EIR is the rate that exactly discounts 
the estimated future cash payments or 
receipts over the expected life of the 
financial instrument or a shorter period, 
where appropriate, to the gross carrying 
amount of the financial asset or to the 
amortised cost of a financial liability. When 
calculating the effective interest rate, 
the Group estimates the expected cash 
flows by considering all the contractual 
terms of the financial instrument but does 
not consider the expected credit losses. 
Interest income is included in other income 
in the consolidated statement of profit and 
loss.
	
e.	 Trade receivable
 
 
Trade receivables are amounts due from 
customers for services performed in the 
ordinary course of business and reflects 
group’s unconditional right to consideration 
(that is, payment is due only on the 
passage of time). Trade receivables are 
recognised initially at the transaction price 
as they do not contain significant financing 
components. The group holds the trade 
receivables with the objective of collecting 
the contractual cash flows and therefore 
measures them subsequently at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method, 
less loss allowance. 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 364
Annual Report 
2023
341
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
	
f.	 Taxes
	
	
Current income tax
 
 
Current income tax assets and liabilities 
are measured at the amount expected to 
be recovered from or paid to the taxation 
authorities. The tax rates and tax laws 
used to compute the amount are those that 
are enacted or substantively enacted, at 
the reporting date in the countries where 
the Group operates and generates taxable 
income.
 
 
Current income tax relating to items 
recognised outside consolidated statement 
of profit and loss is recognised either in other 
comprehensive income or in equity. Current 
tax items are recognised in correlation 
to the underlying transaction either in 
OCI or directly in equity. Management 
periodically evaluates positions taken in 
the tax returns with respect to situations in 
which applicable tax regulations are subject 
to interpretation and considers whether it 
is probable that a taxation authority will 
accept an uncertain tax treatment. The 
Group measures its tax balances either 
based on the most likely amount or the 
expected value, depending on which 
method provides a better prediction of 
the resolution of the uncertainty.
	
	
Deferred tax
 
 
Deferred tax is provided using the liability 
method on temporary differences between 
the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts for financial 
reporting purposes at the reporting date. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for 
all taxable temporary differences, except:
 
 
• When the deferred tax liability arises 
from the initial recognition of goodwill 
or an asset or liability in a transaction 
that is not a business combination 
and, at the time of the transaction, 
affects neither the accounting profit 
nor taxable profit or loss.
 
 
• In respect of taxable temporary 
differences 
associated 
with 
investments in subsidiaries, associates 
and interests in joint ventures, 
when the timing of the reversal of 
the temporary differences can be 
controlled and it is probable that the 
temporary differences will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future.
 
 
Deferred tax assets are recognised for 
all deductible temporary differences, 
the carry forward of unused tax credits 
and any unused tax losses. Deferred tax 
assets are recognised to the extent that 
it is probable that taxable profit will be 
available against which the deductible 
temporary differences, and the carry 
forward of unused tax credits and unused 
tax losses can be utilised, The carrying 
amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed 
at each reporting date and reduced to the 
extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profit will be available to 
allow all or part of the deferred tax asset 
to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax 
assets are re-assessed at each reporting 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 365
Annual Report 
2023
342
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
date and are recognised to the extent that 
it has become probable that future taxable 
profits will allow the deferred tax asset to 
be recovered.
 
 
Deferred tax assets are not recognised 
for temporary differences between 
the carrying amount and tax bases of 
investments in subsidiaries, associates 
and interest in joint arrangements where 
it is not probable that the differences 
will reverse in the foreseeable future and 
taxable profit will not be available against 
which the temporary difference can be 
utilised.
 
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
measured at the tax rates that are 
expected to apply in the year when the 
asset is realised or the liability is settled, 
based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted at 
the reporting date.
 
 
Deferred tax relating to items recognised 
outside consolidated statement of profit 
and loss is recognised either in other 
comprehensive income or in equity. 
Deferred tax items are recognised in 
correlation to the underlying transaction 
either in OCI or directly in equity.
 
 
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax 
liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable 
right exists to set off current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and the 
deferred taxes relate to the same taxable 
entity and the same taxation authority.
	
	
Taxes paid on acquisition of assets or 
on incurring expenses
 
 
Assets are recognised net of the amount 
of GST paid, except when the tax incurred 
on a purchase of assets is not recoverable 
from the taxation authority, in which case, 
the tax paid is recognised as part of the 
cost of acquisition of the asset.
 
 
Expenses are recognised net of the 
amount of GST paid, except when the tax 
incurred on a purchase of services is not 
recoverable from the taxation authority, in 
which case, the tax paid is expensed off 
in statement of profit and loss.
 
 
The net amount of tax recoverable from, 
or payable to, the taxation authority is 
included as part of other current/ non- 
current assets or other current liabilities 
in the consolidated balance sheet.
	
g.	 Non-current assets held for sale 
and discontinued operations
 
 
The Group classifies non-current assets 
and disposal groups as held for sale if 
their carrying amounts will be recovered 
principally through a sale rather than 
through continuing use. Actions required 
to complete the sale should indicate that 
it is unlikely that significant changes to the 
sale will be made or that the decision to 
sell will be withdrawn. Management must 
be committed to the sale expected within 
one year from the date of classification.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 366
Annual Report 
2023
343
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
 
For these purposes, sale transactions 
include exchanges of non-current assets 
for other non-current assets when the 
exchange has commercial substance. The 
criteria for held for sale classification is 
regarded met only when the assets or 
disposal group is available for immediate 
sale in its present condition, subject only 
to terms that are usual and customary 
for sales of such assets (or disposal 
groups), its sale is highly probable; and it 
will genuinely be sold, not abandoned. The 
Group treats sale of the asset or disposal 
group to be highly probable when:
 
 
• The appropriate level of management 
is committed to a plan to sell the asset 
(or disposal group),
 
 
• An active programme to locate a 
buyer and complete the plan has been 
initiated (if applicable),
 
 
• The asset (or disposal group) is being 
actively marketed for sale at a price 
that is reasonable in relation to its 
current fair value,
 
 
• The sale is expected to qualify for 
recognition as a completed sale within 
one year from the date of classification 
, and
 
 
• Actions required to complete the plan 
indicate that it is unlikely that significant 
changes to the plan will be made or that 
the plan will be withdrawn.
 
 
Non-current assets held for sale and 
disposal groups are measured at the lower 
of their carrying amount and the fair value 
less costs to sell. Assets and liabilities 
classified as held for sale are presented 
separately in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet.
 
 
Property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets once classified as held 
for sale are not depreciated or amortised.
 
 
A disposal group qualifies as discontinued 
operation if it is a component of an entity 
that either has been disposed of, or is 
classified as held for sale, and:
 
 
• Represents a separate major line 
of business or geographical area of 
operations or
 
 
• Is part of a single co-ordinated plan 
to dispose of a separate major line 
of business or geographical area of 
operations.
 
 
Discontinued operations are excluded 
from the results of continuing operations 
and are presented as a single amount as 
profit or loss after tax from discontinued 
operations in the consolidated statement 
of profit and loss.
	
h.	 Property, plant and equipment
 
 
Property, plant and equipment are carried 
at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and any accumulated impairment, if 
any. Property, plant and equipment is 
depreciated on a written down value basis 
to its residual value over its estimated 
useful life.
 
 
Cost directly attributable to acquisition are 
capitalised until the property, plant and 
equipment are ready for use, as intended 
by the management.  

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 367
Annual Report 
2023
344
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
 
Subsequent costs are capitalised on 
the carrying amount or recognised as a 
separate asset, as appropriate, only when 
future economic benefits associated 
with the item are probable to flow to 
the Group and cost of the item can be 
measured reliably. When significant parts 
of property, plant and equipment are 
required to be replaced at intervals, the 
Group depreciates them separately based 
on their specific useful lives. The carrying 
amount of any component accounted for 
as a separate asset is derecognised when 
replaced. All repair and maintenance are 
charged to consolidated statement of 
profit and loss during the reporting period 
in which they are incurred.
 
 
Advances paid towards the acquisition of 
property, plant and equipment outstanding 
at each balance sheet date is classified as 
capital advances under the non-current 
assets and the cost of assets not ready to 
use before such date are disclosed under 
‘Capital work in progress’.
 
 
The gain or loss arising on the disposal 
or retirement of an item of property, 
plant and equipment is determined as the 
difference between the sales proceeds and 
the carrying amount of the asset and is 
recognised in the consolidated statement 
of profit and loss on the date of disposal 
or retirement.
 
 
Depreciation is provided using the written 
down value method except for plant and 
machinery on which straight line method 
is used, based on technical evaluation 
done by the management  and charged 
to consolidated statement of profit and 
loss as per the useful life prescribed under 
schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013, 
given below:
Assets
Useful life
(in years)
Servers and networking 
equipment (Computers)
6
Laptops and desktops 
(Computers)
3
Office equipment
5
Furniture and fittings
10
Vehicles
8
Plant & Machinery
- EDC/POS machines
3
- Soundbox
2
 
 
Leasehold improvements are depreciated 
over the shorter of their useful life or the 
lease term, unless the entity expects to 
use the assets beyond the lease term.
 
 
With effect from April 1, 2022, the Holding 
Company has changed the method of 
depreciation for Plant & Machinery from 
written down value method to straight 
line method along with change in life to 3 
years and 2 years for EDC/POS machines 
and Soundbox, respectively. The impact 
on account of above change in estimate 
is immaterial for the current and future 
periods.
 
 
The residual values, useful lives and 
methods of depreciation of property, 
plant and equipment are reviewed at 
each financial year end and adjusted 
prospectively, if appropriate.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 368
Annual Report 
2023
345
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
	
i.	 Intangible assets
 
 
Separately acquired intangible assets, such 
as software are measured initially at cost. 
Following initial recognition, intangible 
assets are carried at cost less accumulated 
amortization and accumulated impairment 
losses, if any. Costs associated with 
maintaining software programmes are 
recognised as an expense as incurred. 
Development costs that are directly 
attributable to the design and testing of 
identifiable and unique software products 
controlled by the Company are recognised 
as intangible assets where the following 
criteria are met:
 
 
• it is technically feasible to complete 
the software so that it will be available 
for use or sale
 
 
• management intends to complete the 
software and use or sell it
 
 
• there is an ability to use or sell the 
software
 
 
• it can be demonstrated how the 
software will generate probable future 
economic benefits
 
 
• adequate technical, financial and 
other resources to complete the 
development and to use or sell the 
software are available, and
 
 
• the expenditure attributable to the 
software during its development can 
be reliably measured.
 
 
Directly attributable costs that are 
capitalised as part of the software include 
employee costs.
	
	
Research and development costs
 
 
Research expenditure and development 
expenditure that do not meet the criteria 
above are recognised as an expense as 
incurred. Development costs previously 
recognised as an expense are not 
recognised as an asset in a subsequent 
period.
	
	
Amortization methods and periods
 
 
Amortization of intangible assets begins 
when development is complete and the 
asset is available for use. Software, licenses 
acquired and internally generated software 
are amortized at the rate of 40% per annum 
on written down value method. During the 
period of development, the asset is tested 
for impairment annually. The amortization 
period and the amortization method are 
reviewed at least at each financial year end. 
Changes in the expected useful life or the 
expected pattern of consumption of future 
economic benefits embodied in the asset 
are considered to modify the amortization 
period or method, as appropriate, and are 
treated as changes in accounting estimates. 
The amortization expense on intangible 
assets is recognized in the statement of 
profit and loss unless such expenditure 
forms part of carrying value of another 
asset.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 369
Annual Report 
2023
346
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
 
Gains or losses arising from de-recognition 
of an intangible asset are measured as 
the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the 
asset and are recognized in the statement 
of profit and loss when the asset is 
derecognized.
	
j.	 Borrowing costs
 
 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to 
the acquisition, construction or production 
of an asset that necessarily takes a 
substantial period of time to get ready 
for its intended use or sale are capitalised 
as part of the cost of the asset. All other 
borrowing costs are expensed in the period 
in the consolidated statement of profit 
and loss in which they occur. Borrowing 
costs consist of interest and other costs 
that an entity incurs in connection with 
the borrowing of funds. 
	
k.	 Impairment of non-financial 
assets
 
 
For all non-financial assets, the Group 
assesses whether there are indicators of 
impairment. If such an indicator exists, 
the recoverable amount of the asset is 
estimated in order to determine the extent 
of the impairment loss, if any. Where the 
asset does not generate cash flows that 
are independent from other assets, the 
Group estimates the recoverable amount 
of the cash-generating unit (CGU) to which 
the asset belongs. 
 
 
The recoverable amount for an asset or 
CGU is the higher of its value in use and 
fair value less costs of disposal. If the 
recoverable amount of an asset or CGU 
is estimated to be less than its carrying 
amount or CGU the asset is considered 
impaired and the carrying amount of the 
asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable 
amount. An impairment loss is recognised 
immediately in the consolidated statement 
of profit and loss. 
 
 
In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows of the asset or CGU are 
discounted to their present value using a 
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value 
of money and the risks specific to the 
asset. In determining fair value less costs 
of disposal, recent market transactions are 
taken into account. If no such transactions 
can be identified, an appropriate valuation 
model is used. These calculations are 
corroborated by valuation multiples, 
quoted share prices for publicly traded 
companies or other available fair value 
indicators.
 
 
The Group bases its impairment calculation 
on detailed budgets and forecast 
calculations. These budgets and forecast 
calculations generally cover a period of 
five years. For longer periods, a long-term 
growth rate is calculated and applied to 
project future cash flows after the fifth 
year. To estimate cash flow projections 
beyond periods covered by the most 
recent budgets/forecasts, the Group 
extrapolates cash flow projections in 
the budget using a steady or declining 
growth rate for subsequent years, unless 
an increasing rate can be justified. In any 
case, this growth rate does not exceed 
the long-term average growth rate for 
the products, industries, or country or 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 370
Annual Report 
2023
347
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
countries in which the entity operates, or 
for the market in which the asset is used.
 
 
An assessment is made at each reporting 
date to determine whether there is an 
indication that previously recognised 
impairment losses no longer exist or 
have decreased. If such indication 
exists, the Group estimates the asset’s 
or CGU’s recoverable amount. A previously 
recognised impairment loss is reversed 
only if there has been a change in the 
assumptions used to determine the asset’s 
or CGU’s recoverable amount since the 
last impairment loss was recognised. The 
reversal is limited so that the carrying 
amount of the asset does not exceed 
its recoverable amount, nor exceed the 
carrying amount that would have been 
determined, net of depreciation, had 
no impairment loss been recognised for 
the asset in prior years. Such reversal is 
recognised in the consolidated statement 
of profit or loss. 
	
l.	 Provisions and contingencies
	
	
Provisions
 
 
Provisions are recognised when the 
Group has a present obligation (legal 
or constructive) as a result of a past 
event, it is probable that an outflow of 
resources embodying economic benefits 
will be required to settle the obligation 
and a reliable estimate can be made of 
the amount of the obligation. When the 
Group expects some or all of a provision 
to be reimbursed, the reimbursement 
is recognised as a separate asset, but 
only when the reimbursement is virtually 
certain. The expense relating to a provision 
is presented in the consolidated statement 
of profit and loss net of any reimbursement. 
If the effect of the time value of money 
is material, provisions are discounted 
using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, 
when appropriate, the risks specific to 
the liability. When discounting is used, 
the increase in the provision due to the 
passage of time is recognised as a finance 
cost.
	
	
Contingencies
 
 
A contingent liability is a possible 
obligation that arises from past events 
whose existence will be confirmed by the 
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or 
more uncertain future events beyond the 
control of the Group or a present obligation 
that is not recognized because it is not 
probable that an outflow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation. A 
contingent liability also arises in extremely 
rare cases where there is a liability that 
cannot be recognized because it cannot 
be measured reliably. The Group does not 
recognize a contingent liability but discloses 
its existence in the consolidated financial 
Statements.
 m.	 Retirement and other employee 
benefits
 
 
For defined benefit plans (gratuity), the 
liability or asset recognised in the balance 
sheet is the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation at the end of the reporting 
period less the fair value of plan assets. The 
defined benefit obligation is calculated by 
independent actuaries using the projected 
unit credit method. 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 371
Annual Report 
2023
348
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
 
The present value of the defined benefit 
obligation is determined by discounting 
the estimated future cash outflows by 
reference to market yields at the end of 
the reporting period on government bonds 
that have terms approximating to the terms 
of the related obligation.
 
 
The net interest cost is calculated by 
applying the discount rate to the net 
balance of the defined benefit obligation 
and the fair value of plan assets. This cost 
is included in employee benefit expense in 
the consolidated statement of profit and 
loss.
 
 
Remeasurement gains and losses arising 
from experience adjustments and changes 
in actuarial assumptions are recognised 
in the period in which they occur, directly 
in other comprehensive income. They 
are included in retained earnings in the 
statement of changes in equity and in the 
balance sheet. Re-measurements are not 
reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent 
periods.
 
 
Changes in the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation resulting from 
plan amendments or curtailments are 
recognised immediately in profit or loss 
as past service cost.
 
 
The Group’s contributions to defined 
contribution plans (provident fund) 
are recognized in profit or loss when 
the employee renders related service. 
The Group has no further obligations 
under these plans beyond its periodic 
contributions.
 
 
The Group provides for liability at year end 
on account of un-availed earned leave and 
Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) as per 
actuarial valuation using projected unit 
credit method.
 
 
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including 
non-monetary benefits that are expected 
to be settled wholly within 12 months 
after the end of the period in which the 
employees render the related service 
are recognised in respect of employees’ 
services up to the end of the reporting 
period and are measured at the amounts 
expected to be paid when the liabilities 
are settled. The liabilities are presented 
as employee benefit payable under other 
financial liabilities in the consolidated 
balance sheet.
	
n.	 Share-based payments
	
	
i)	 Equity-settled transactions
 
 
 
Employees (including senior executives) 
of the Group receive remuneration in 
the form of share-based payments, 
whereby employees render services 
as consideration for equity instruments 
(equity-settled transactions).
 
 
 
The cost of equity-settled transactions 
is determined by the fair value at the 
date when the grant is made using an 
appropriate valuation model.
 
 
 
That cost is recognised, together 
with a corresponding increase in 
Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOP) 
reserves in equity, over the period in 
which the performance and/or service 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 372
Annual Report 
2023
349
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
conditions are fulfilled in employee 
benefits expense. The cumulative 
expense recognised for equity-settled 
transactions at each reporting date 
until the vesting date reflects the extent 
to which the vesting period has expired 
and the Group’s best estimate of the 
number of equity instruments that 
will ultimately vest. The consolidated 
statement of profit and loss expense 
or credit for a period represents the 
movement in cumulative expense 
recognised as at the beginning and 
end of that period and is recognised 
in employee benefits expense.
 
 
 
Performance conditions which are 
market conditions are taken into 
account when determining the 
grant date fair value of the awards. 
Service and non-market performance 
conditions are not taken into account 
when determining the grant date fair 
value of awards, but the likelihood of 
the conditions being met is assessed 
as part of the Group’s best estimate of 
the number of equity instruments that 
will ultimately vest.
 
 
 
No expense is recognised for awards 
that do not ultimately vest because 
non-market performance and/or service 
conditions have not been met.
 
 
 
When the terms of an equity-settled 
award are modified, the minimum 
expense recognised is the expense 
had the terms not been modified, if 
the original terms of the award are met. 
An additional expense is recognised for 
any modification that increases the total 
fair value of the share-based payment 
transaction, or is otherwise beneficial 
to the employee as measured at the 
date of modification. 
 
 
 
Where an award is cancelled by the 
entity or by the counterparty, any 
remaining element of the fair value of 
the award is expensed immediately 
through profit or loss.
 
 
 
The dilutive effect of outstanding 
options is reflected as additional share 
dilution in the computation of diluted 
earnings per share.
	
	
ii)	 Cash-settled transactions
 
 
 
For awards classified as cash settled 
share based transactions, the goods 
or services acquired are measured and 
the liability incurred, at the fair value of 
liability. Until the liability is settled, the 
fair value of the liability is re-measured 
at the end of each reporting period 
and at the date of settlement, with 
any changes in fair value recognised in 
consolidated statement of profit and 
loss for the period.
 
 
 
The cost of cash-settled transactions 
is determined by the fair value of equity 
instruments at each reporting date using 
an appropriate valuation model.
 
 
 
That cost is recognised, together with a 
corresponding increase in liability, over 
the period in which the performance 
and/or service conditions are fulfilled 
in employee benefits expense. The 
cumulative expense recognised for 
cash-settled transactions at each 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 373
Annual Report 
2023
350
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
reporting date until the vesting date 
reflects the extent to which the 
vesting period has expired and the 
Group’s best estimate of the number of 
equity instruments that will ultimately 
vest. The consolidated statement of 
profit and loss expense or credit for 
a period represents the movement in 
cumulative expense recognised as at 
the beginning and end of that period 
and is recognised in employee benefits 
expense.
 
 
 
No expense is recognised for awards 
that do not ultimately vest because 
non-market performance and/or service 
conditions have not been met.
 
 
 
The Group has set up Paytm Associate 
Benefit Welfare Trust (formerly known 
as One 97 Employee Welfare Trust) 
for administering certain types of 
share-based payment arrangements 
including awards given to employees 
of the outside group companies as 
well for awards of options of other 
companies given to its employees. The 
Group uses the Trust as a vehicle for 
distributing shares under the ESOP 
schemes. The Trust holds shares of the 
Group, for giving shares to employees. 
The Group treats the Trust as its 
extension and shares of the Group 
held by Trust are treated as treasury 
shares. Other assets held by the Trust 
are consolidated on a line-by-line basis 
with Group’s consolidated financial 
statements. Shares of other companies 
held by the Trust for distribution to its 
employees are separately disclosed 
under investments.
 
 
 
The Group has lost control over the 
Trust and accordingly, it is now not 
consolidated on a line-by-line basis 
with Group’s financial statements. 
	
o.	 Financial instruments
 
 
A financial instrument is any contract that 
gives rise to a financial asset of one entity 
and a financial liability or equity instrument 
of another entity.
	
	
Financial assets
 
 
Initial recognition and measurement
 
 
All financial assets are recognised initially 
at fair value plus, in the case of financial 
assets not recorded at fair value through 
profit or loss, transaction costs that are 
attributable to the acquisition of the 
financial asset. However, trade receivables 
that do not contain a significant financing 
component are measured at transaction 
price.
 
 
Subsequent measurement
 
 
For purposes of subsequent measurement, 
financial assets are classified in four 
categories:
 
 
• Debt instruments at amortized cost
 
 
• Debt instruments at fair value through 
other comprehensive income (FVTOCI)
 
 
• Debt instruments, derivatives and 
equity instruments at fair value through 
profit or loss (FVTPL)
 
 
• Equity instruments measured at fair 
value through other comprehensive 
income (FVTOCI)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 374
Annual Report 
2023
351
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
 
Debt instruments at amortised cost
 
 
A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the 
amortised cost if both the following 
conditions are met:
 
 
a) The asset is held within a business 
model whose objective is to hold 
assets for collecting contractual cash 
flows, and
 
 
b) Contractual terms of the asset give 
rise on specified dates to cash flows 
that are solely payments of principal 
and interest (SPPI) on the principal 
amount outstanding.
 
 
After initial measurement, such financial 
assets are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised 
cost is calculated by taking into account 
any discount or premium on acquisition 
and fees or costs that are an integral 
part of the EIR. The EIR amortization is 
included in finance income in the profit or 
loss. The losses arising from impairment 
are recognised in the profit or loss. This 
category generally applies to trade and 
other receivables and is most relevant to 
the Group.
 
 
Debt instrument at FVTOCI
 
 
A ‘debt instrument’ is classified as at the 
FVTOCI if both of the following criteria are 
met:
 
 
a) The objective of the business model is 
achieved both by collecting contractual 
cash flows and selling the financial 
assets,   and
 
 
b) The asset’s contractual cash flows 
represent SPPI.
 
 
Debt instruments included within the 
FVTOCI category are measured initially as 
well as at each reporting date at fair value. 
Fair value movements are recognized in 
the other comprehensive income (OCI). 
However, the Group recognizes interest 
income, impairment losses and reversals 
and foreign exchange gain or loss in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss. 
On derecognition of the asset, cumulative 
gain or loss previously recognised in 
OCI is reclassified from the equity to 
consolidated statement of profit and loss. 
Interest earned whilst holding FVTOCI debt 
instrument is reported as interest income 
using the EIR method.
 
 
Debt instrument at FVTPL
 
 
FVTPL is a residual category for debt 
instruments. Any debt instrument, 
which does not meet the criteria for 
categorization as at amortized cost or as 
FVTOCI, is classified as at FVTPL.
 
 
In addition, the Group may elect to 
designate a debt instrument, which 
otherwise meets amortized cost or 
FVTOCI criteria, as at FVTPL. However, 
such election is allowed only if doing so 
reduces or eliminates a measurement or 
recognition inconsistency (referred to as 
‘accounting mismatch’). 
 
 
Debt instruments included within the FVTPL 
category are measured at fair value with 
all changes recognized in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 375
Annual Report 
2023
352
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
 
Equity investments
 
 
All equity investments in scope of Ind 
AS 109 are measured at fair value. The 
Group may make an irrevocable election 
to present in other comprehensive income 
subsequent changes in the fair value. 
The Group makes such election on an 
instrument-by-instrument basis. The 
classification is made on initial recognition 
and is irrevocable.
 
 
If the Group decides to classify an equity 
instrument as at FVTOCI, then all fair value 
changes on the instrument, excluding 
dividends, are recognized in the OCI. There 
is no recycling of the amounts from OCI to 
consolidated statement of profit or loss, 
even on sale of investment. However, the 
Group may transfer the cumulative gain or 
loss within equity.
 
 
Equity instruments included within the 
FVTPL category are measured at fair 
value with all changes recognized in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss.
 
 
The equity securities which are not held for 
trading, and for which the Group has made 
an irrevocable election at initial recognition 
to recognize changes in fair value through 
OCI rather than profit or loss as these 
are strategic investments and the Group 
considered this to be more relevant.
 
 
Equity investments in associates and 
joint ventures are measured at cost. The 
investments are reviewed at each reporting 
date to determine whether there is any 
indication of impairment considering the 
provisions of Ind AS 36 ‘Impairment of 
Assets’. If any such indication exists, policy 
for impairment of non-financial assets is 
followed.
 
 
Derecognition
 
 
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a 
part of a financial asset or part of a group 
of similar financial assets) is primarily 
derecognised (i.e. removed from the 
Group’s consolidated balance sheet) when:
 
 
• The rights to receive cash flows from 
the asset have expired, or
 
 
• The Group has transferred its rights 
to receive cash flows from the asset 
or has assumed an obligation to pay 
the received cash flows in full without 
material delay to a third party under 
a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and 
either (a) the Group has transferred 
substantially all the risks and rewards of 
the asset, or (b) the Group has neither 
transferred nor retained substantially 
all the risks and rewards of the asset, 
but has transferred control of the asset.
 
 
When the Group has transferred its rights 
to receive cash flows from an asset or has 
entered into a pass-through arrangement, 
it evaluates if and to what extent it 
has retained the risks and rewards of 
ownership. When it has neither transferred 
nor retained substantially all of the risks 
and rewards of the asset, nor transferred 
control of the asset, the Group continues 
to recognise the transferred asset to 
the extent of the Group’s continuing 
involvement. In that case, the Group also 
recognises an associated liability. The 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 376
Annual Report 
2023
353
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
transferred asset and the associated 
liability are measured on a basis that 
reflects the rights and obligations that 
the Group has retained.
 
 
Impairment of financial assets
 
 
In accordance with Ind AS 109, the Group 
applies expected credit loss (ECL) model 
for measurement and recognition of 
impairment loss on financial assets that 
are debt instruments, and are measured at 
amortised cost e.g., loans, debt securities, 
deposits, trade receivables and bank 
balance.
 
 
The Group follows ‘simplified approach’ for 
recognition of impairment loss allowance 
on trade receivables. The application 
of simplified approach does not require 
the Group to track changes in credit 
risk. Rather, it recognises impairment 
loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at 
each reporting date, right from its initial 
recognition. 
 
 
For recognition of impairment loss on other 
financial assets and risk exposure, the 
Group determines that whether there has 
been a significant increase in the credit 
risk since initial recognition. If credit risk 
has not increased significantly, 12-month 
expected credit loss (ECL) is used to 
provide for impairment loss. However, 
if credit risk has increased significantly, 
lifetime ECL is used. If, in a subsequent 
period, credit quality of the instrument 
improves such that there is no longer a 
significant increase in credit risk since 
initial recognition, then the entity reverts 
to recognising impairment loss allowance 
based on 12-month ECL.
 
 
Lifetime ECL are the expected credit 
losses resulting from all possible default 
events over the expected life of a financial 
instrument. The 12-month ECL is a portion 
of the lifetime ECL which results from 
default events that are possible within 12 
months after the reporting date.
 
 
ECL is the difference between all 
contractual cash flows that are due to the 
Group in accordance with the contract and 
all the cash flows that the entity expects to 
receive (i.e., all cash shortfalls), discounted 
at the original EIR.
 
 
The Group uses a provision matrix to 
determine impairment loss allowance 
on portfolio of its trade receivables. The 
provision matrix is based on its historically 
observed default rates over the expected 
life of the trade receivables and is adjusted 
for forward-looking estimates. At every 
reporting date, the historical observed 
default rates are updated and changes in 
the forward-looking estimates are analysed.
 
 
ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) 
recognized during the period is recognized 
as income/ expense in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss. This amount 
is reflected under the head other expenses 
in the consolidated statement of profit and 
loss. For the financial assets measured 
as at amortised cost ECL is presented as 
an allowance, i.e., as an integral part of 
the measurement of those assets in the 
consolidated balance sheet. The allowance 
reduces the net carrying amount. Until the 
asset meets write-off criteria, the Group 
does not reduce impairment allowance 
from the gross carrying amount.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 377
Annual Report 
2023
354
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
	
	
Financial liabilities
 
 
Initial recognition and measurement
 
 
Financial liabilities are classified, at initial 
recognition, as financial liabilities at fair 
value through profit or loss, loans and 
borrowings, payables, or as derivatives 
designated as hedging instruments in an 
effective hedge, as appropriate.
 
 
All financial liabilities are recognised initially 
at fair value and, in the case of loans and 
borrowings and payables, net of directly 
attributable transaction costs.
 
 
The Group’s financial liabilities include 
borrowings, lease liabilities, trade and 
other payables.
 
 
Subsequent measurement
 
 
The measurement of financial liabilities 
depends on their classification as 
described below: 
 
 
Loans and borrowings
 
 
After initial recognition, interest-bearing 
loans and borrowings are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the EIR 
method. Gains and losses are recognised 
in profit or loss when the liabilities are 
derecognised as well as through the EIR 
amortisation process. 
 
 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking 
into account any discount or premium 
on acquisition and fees or costs that 
are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR 
amortisation is included as finance costs 
in the consolidated statement of profit and 
loss.
 
 
Derecognition
 
 
A financial liability is derecognised when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged 
or cancelled or expires. When an existing 
financial liability is replaced by another 
from the same lender on substantially 
different terms, or the terms of an existing 
liability are substantially modified, such 
an exchange or modification is treated as 
the derecognition of the original liability 
and the recognition of a new liability. 
The difference in the respective carrying 
amounts is recognised in the consolidated 
statement of profit or loss.
 
 
Embedded derivatives
 
 
An embedded derivative is a component of 
a hybrid (combined) instrument that also 
includes a non-derivative host contract – with 
the effect that some of the cash flows of the 
combined instrument vary in a way similar 
to a stand-alone derivative. An embedded 
derivative causes some or all of the cash 
flows that otherwise would be required by 
the contract to be modified according to a 
specified interest rate, financial instrument 
price, commodity price, foreign exchange 
rate, index of prices or rates, credit rating 
or credit index, or other variable, provided 
in the case of a non-financial variable that 
the variable is not specific to a party to 
the contract.  Reassessment only occurs if 
there is either a change in the terms of the 
contract that significantly modifies the cash 
flows that would otherwise be required or 
a reclassification of a financial asset out of 
the fair value through profit or loss.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 378
Annual Report 
2023
355
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
 
If the hybrid contract contains a host that 
is a financial asset within the scope of 
Ind AS 109, the Group does not separate 
embedded derivatives. Rather, it applies 
the classification requirements contained 
in Ind AS 109 to the entire hybrid contract. 
Derivatives embedded in all other host 
contracts are accounted for as separate 
derivatives and recorded at fair value if 
their economic characteristics and risks 
are not closely related to those of the host 
contracts and the host contracts are not 
held for trading or designated at fair value 
though profit or loss. These embedded 
derivatives are measured at fair value with 
changes in fair value recognized in profit 
or loss, unless designated as effective 
hedging instruments.
	
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
 
 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are 
offset and the net amount is reported in 
the consolidated balance sheet if there is a 
currently enforceable legal right to offset the 
recognised amounts and there is an intention 
to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets 
and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
	
p.	 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
Cash and cash equivalent in the 
consolidated balance sheet comprise 
cash at banks and on hand and short-
term deposits with an original maturity of 
three months or less, which are subject to 
an insignificant risk of changes in value.
 
 
For the purpose of the consolidated 
statement of cash flows, cash and cash 
equivalents consist of cash and short-
term deposits, as defined above, net of 
outstanding bank overdrafts as they are 
considered an integral part of the Group’s 
cash management.
	
q.	 Leases
	
	
The Group as a lessee
 
 
The Group’s lease asset classes primarily 
consist of leases for land and office 
premises. The Group assesses whether a 
contract contains a lease, at inception of a 
contract. A contract is, or contains, a lease 
if the contract conveys the right to control 
the use of an identified asset for a period 
of time in exchange for consideration. To 
assess whether a contract conveys the 
right to control the use of an identified 
asset, the Group assesses whether: (i) the 
contact involves the use of an identified 
asset (ii) the Group has substantially all 
of the economic benefits from use of the 
asset through the period of the lease and 
(iii) the Group has the right to direct the 
use of the asset.
 
 
At the date of commencement of the lease, 
the Group recognizes a right-of-use asset 
(“ROU”) and a corresponding lease liability 
for all lease arrangements in which it is a 
lessee, except for leases with a term of 
twelve months or less (short-term leases) 
and low value leases. For these short-term 
and low value leases, the Group recognizes 
the lease payments as an operating 
expense on a straight-line basis over the 
term of the lease.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 379
Annual Report 
2023
356
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
 
Certain lease arrangements includes the 
options to extend or terminate the lease 
before the end of the lease term. ROU 
assets and lease liabilities includes these 
options when it is reasonably certain that 
they will be exercised.
 
 
The right-of-use assets are initially 
recognized at cost, which comprises the 
initial amount of the lease liability adjusted 
for any lease payments made at or prior 
to the commencement date of the lease 
plus any initial direct costs less any lease 
incentives. They are subsequently measured 
at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses, if any.
 
 
Right-of-use assets are depreciated from 
the commencement date on a straight-line 
basis over the shorter of the lease term and 
useful life of the underlying asset. Right-of-
use assets are evaluated for recoverability 
whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that their carrying amounts may 
not be recoverable. For the purpose of 
impairment testing, the recoverable amount 
(i.e. the higher of the fair value less cost to 
sell and the value-in-use) is determined on 
an individual asset basis unless the asset 
does not generate cash flows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets. 
In such cases, the recoverable amount is 
determined for the Cash Generating Unit 
(CGU) to which the asset belongs.
 
 
The lease liability is initially measured 
at amortized cost at the present value 
of the future lease payments. The 
lease payments are discounted using 
the interest rate implicit in the lease or, 
if not readily determinable, using the 
incremental borrowing rates in the country 
of domicile of these leases. Lease liabilities 
are remeasured with a corresponding 
adjustment to the related right-of-use 
asset if the Group changes its assessment 
if whether it will exercise an extension or 
a termination option.
 
 
Lease liability and ROU asset have been 
separately presented in the consolidated 
balance sheet and lease payments have 
been classified as financing cash flows.
	
r.	 Earnings/ (loss) per share (EPS)
 
 
Basic EPS amounts are calculated by 
dividing the profit/ (loss) for the period 
attributable to equity holders by the 
weighted average number of Equity shares 
outstanding during the year excluding the 
treasury shares.
 
 
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by 
dividing the profit/ (loss) attributable to 
equity holders by the weighted average 
number of Equity shares outstanding 
during the period plus the weighted 
average number of Equity shares that 
would be issued on conversion of all the 
dilutive potential Equity shares into Equity 
shares.
	
s.	 Treasury shares
 
 
Own equity instruments that are reacquired 
(treasury shares) are recognised at cost 
and deducted from equity. No gain or 
loss is recognised in profit or loss on the 
purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of 
the Group’s own equity instruments. Any 
difference between the carrying amount 
and the consideration, if reissued, is 
recognised in other reserve.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 380
Annual Report 
2023
357
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
	
t.	 Segment reporting
 
 
Operating segments are reported in a 
manner consistent with the internal 
reporting provided to the chief operating 
decision-maker. The Chief Operating 
decision-maker is responsible for allocating 
resources and assessing performance 
of the operating segments and makes 
strategic decisions.
	
u.	 Use of estimates
 
 
The Group is required to make estimates 
and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of assets, liabilities, disclosure 
of contingent liabilities at the date of the 
consolidated financial statements and 
the reported amounts of revenue and 
expenses during the reporting period. 
Actual results could differ from those 
estimates. The Group bases its estimates 
on historical experience and on various 
other assumptions that are believed to 
be reasonable, the results of which form 
the basis for making judgements about 
carrying values of assets and liabilities.
	
v.	 Exceptional Items
 
 
On certain occasions, the size, type or 
incidence of an item of income or expense, 
pertaining to the ordinary activities of the 
Group is such that its disclosure improves 
the understanding of the performance 
of the Group. Such income or expense 
is classified as an exceptional item and 
accordingly disclosed in the consolidated 
financial statements. Significant impact 
on the consolidated financial statements 
arising from impairment of goodwill, 
impairment of investments in associates 
and gain/ loss on disposal of subsidiaries 
and associates (other than major lines 
of business that meet the definition of a 
discontinued operation) are considered 
and reported as exceptional items.
	
w.	Contributed Equity
 
 
Equity shares are classified as equity.
 
 
The transaction costs of an equity 
transaction are accounted for as a 
deduction from equity (net of any related 
income tax benefit) to the extent they 
are incremental costs directly attributable 
to the equity transaction that otherwise 
would have been avoided. Qualifying 
transaction costs incurred in anticipation 
of an issuance of equity instruments is 
deferred on the balance sheet until the 
equity instrument is recognised. Deferred 
costs are subsequently reclassified as a 
deduction from equity when the equity 
instruments are recognised. If the equity 
instruments are not subsequently issued, 
the deferred transaction costs are charged 
off to profit or loss.
 
 
The transaction costs incurred with 
respect to the IPO of the Holding 
Company as reduced by the amount 
recovered from the selling shareholders 
are allocated between new issue of 
shares and listing of existing equity 
shares. The costs attributable to listing 
of existing shares is recognised in profit 
or loss and the costs attributable to 
new issuance of shares is recognised 
in equity.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 381
Annual Report 
2023
358
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
3(a). Property, plant and equipment
Notes:
(i) Capital work-in-progress (Refer note 3(c))
 
Capital work-in-progress mainly comprises of servers and electrical devices. Further, Capital work-
in-progress includes expenditure of INR 40 (March 31, 2022: INR 40) relating to expenses incurred 
on construction of office premises.
(ii) Refer to note 29 (b) for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant 
and equipment.
^ Plant and machinery includes Gross carrying amount INR 10,460 (March 31, 2022: INR 4,678),  Accumulated 
depreciation INR 4,553 (March 31, 2022: INR 1,875), Net carrying amount INR 5,907 (March 31, 2022: INR 
2,803) of point-of-sale machines and sound boxes installed at customer's premise.
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the group.
Particulars
Computers
Furniture 
and 
Fittings
Leasehold 
Improvements
Vehicles
Office 
Equipments
Plant & 
Machinery^
Total
Gross carrying amount
As at April 1, 2021
 3,739 
 69 
 247 
 11 
 310 
 2,622  6,998 
Additions
 662 
 5 
 10 
 - 
 31 
 4,057  4,765 
Foreign Currency Translation 
Reserve
 3 
 1 
 8 
 - 
 * 
 - 
 12 
Disposals
 173 
 23 
 * 
 - 
 34 
 - 
 230 
As at March 31, 2022
 4,231 
 52 
 265 
 11 
 307 
 6,679 11,545 
As at April 1, 2022
 4,231 
 52 
 265 
 11 
 307 
 6,679 11,545 
Additions
 300 
 2 
 - 
 - 
 22 
 6,738  7,062 
Foreign Currency Translation 
Reserve
 6 
 * 
 1 
 - 
 * 
 - 
 7 
Disposals
 523 
 6 
 - 
 1 
 18 
 291 
 839 
As at March 31, 2023
 4,014 
 48 
 266 
 10 
 311 
 13,126 17,775 
Accumulated depreciation 
As at April 1, 2021
 2,708 
 41 
 83 
 3 
 149 
 1,022  4,006 
For the year
 562 
 8 
 37 
 2 
 28 
 1,479 
 2,116 
Foreign Currency Translation 
Reserve
 2 
 * 
 4 
 - 
 * 
 - 
 6 
Disposals
 150 
 19 
 * 
 - 
 30 
 * 
 199 
As at March 31, 2022
 3,122 
 30 
 124 
 5 
 147 
 2,501  5,929 
As at April 1, 2022
 3,122 
 30 
 124 
 5 
 147 
 2,501  5,929 
For the year
 661 
 6 
 43 
 2 
 26 
 3,573  4,311 
Foreign Currency Translation 
Reserve
 6 
 * 
 1 
 - 
 * 
 - 
 7 
Disposals
 471 
 5 
 - 
 1 
 17 
 271 
 765 
As at March 31, 2023
 3,318 
 31 
 168 
 6 
 156 
 5,803  9,482 
Net carrying amount
As at March 31, 2023
 696 
 17 
 98 
 4 
 155 
 7,323  8,293 
As at March 31, 2022
 1,109 
 22 
 141 
 6 
 160 
 4,178  5,616 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 382
Annual Report 
2023
359
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
3	 (b). Leases
A.	Right-of-use assets
Particulars
 Right-of-use 
Leasehold Land 
 Right-of-use 
Office Premises 
 Total 
Gross Carrying Amount
As at April 1, 2021
 844 
 1,047 
 1,891 
Additions
 - 
 1,941 
 1,941 
Disposals 
 - 
 6 
 6 
As at March 31, 2022
 844 
 2,982 
 3,826 
As at April 1, 2022
 844 
 2,982 
 3,826 
Additions
 - 
 451 
 451 
Disposals 
 - 
 69 
 69 
As at March 31, 2023
 844 
 3,364 
 4,208 
Accumulated Depreciation
As at April 1, 2021
 20 
 588 
 608 
For the Year
 10 
 263 
 273 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2022
 30 
 851 
 881 
As at April 1, 2022
 30 
 851 
 881 
For the Year
 10 
 434 
 444 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2023
 40 
 1,285 
 1,325 
Net Carrying Amount
As at March 31, 2023
 804 
 2,079 
 2,883 
As at March 31, 2022
 814 
 2,131 
 2,945 
B.	Lease Liabilities
Particulars
March 31 2023
March 31 2022 
Lease Liability on Land- Current
 - 
 58 
Lease Liability on Office Premises- Current
 337 
 334 
Lease Liability on Office Premises- Non-Current
 1,876 
 1,822 
Total
 2,213 
 2,214 
Total lease liability - Current
 337 
 392 
Total lease liability - Non-Current
 1,876 
 1,822 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 383
Annual Report 
2023
360
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Particulars
Notes
For the year 
ended  
March 31, 2023
For the year 
ended  
March 31, 2022
Depreciation charge of Right-of-use assets
Land
 10 
 10 
Office Premises#
 434 
 263 
Total 
17
 444 
 273 
Interest expense (included in finance cost)
18
 198 
 86 
Expense relating to short-term lease (included in 
other expenses)
19
 67 
 100 
3	 (b). Leases (Contd..)
C.	Amounts recognised in Statement of profit and loss
 
# This amount is including cross charge of INR Nil (March 31, 2022: 2). Net depreciation charge 
of Right-of-use assets in profit & loss is INR 444 (March 31, 2022 INR 271).
 
The lease term is reassessed if an option is actually exercised (or not exercised) or the Group 
becomes obliged to exercise (or not exercise) it. The assessment of reasonable certainty is only 
revised if a significant event or a significant change in circumstances occurs, which affects this 
assessment, and that is within the control of the lessee. The Group has given notice to vacate 
certain office premises. This has been accounted as lease termination. Hence, in accordance with 
Ind AS 116, Lease Liability has been re-measured by INR 9 (March 31, 2022: 9) with corresponding 
adjustment to Right-of-Use assets amounting to INR 24 (March 31, 2022: 6) and the remaining 
balance has been included in Miscellaneous Income disclosed under Other Income in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss.
 
The total cash outflow for leases for the year is INR 638 (March 31, 2022: 402)
	
Extension and termination options:
 
Extension and termination options are included in certain leases. These are used to maximise 
operational flexibility in terms of managing the assets used in the Group’s operations. In certain 
cases, the extension and termination options held are exercisable only by the Group and not by 
the respective lessor.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 384
Annual Report 
2023
361
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
3 (c) Capital work-in-progress
Capital work-in-progress (CWIP) ageing schedule for the year ended 
March 31, 2023
CWIP
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 Years
Projects in progress
23
9
1
39
 72 
CWIP
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 Years
Projects in progress
 56 
 5 
 2 
 39 
 102 
Capital work-in-progress (CWIP) ageing schedule for the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Intangible assets under 
development
Amount for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 Years
Projects in progress
41
 * 
 * 
1
 42 
Intangible assets under 
development
Amount for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 Years
Projects in progress
 16 
 1 
 1 
*
 18 
3 (d) Intangible assets under development
Intangible assets under development ageing schedule for the year ended 
March 31, 2023
Intangible assets under development ageing schedule for the year ended 
March 31, 2022
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the group.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 385
Annual Report 
2023
362
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
4.	Other intangible assets
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the group.
Particulars
Customer 
Relationship
Brand
Non-
Compete
Software 
 Internally 
Generated 
Software 
 Total Goodwill
Gross carrying amount
As at April 1, 2021
 251 
 448 
 39 
 592 
 103 1,433 
 4,129 
Additions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 49 
 - 
 49 
 - 
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1 
 1 
 - 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 191 
 - 
 191 
 - 
As at March 31, 2022
 251 
 448 
 39 
 450 
 104 1,292 
 4,129 
As at April 1, 2022
 251 
 448 
 39 
 450 
 104 1,292 
 4,129 
Additions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 121 
 314 
 435 
 - 
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2 
 2 
 - 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3 
 - 
 3 
 - 
As at March 31, 2023
 251 
 448 
 39 
 568 
 420  1,726 
 4,129 
Accumulated Amortization/
Impairment
As at April 1, 2021
 243 
 439 
 36 
 443 
 101 1,262 
 3,662 
For the year
 4 
 7 
 3 
 71 
 1 
 86 
 - 
Impairment loss for the year (Refer 
note 36)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 24 
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 * 
 * 
 - 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 191 
 - 
 191 
 - 
As at March 31, 2022
 247 
 446 
 39 
 323 
 102  1,157 
 3,686 
As at April 1, 2022
 247 
 446 
 39 
 323 
 102  1,157 
 3,686 
For the year
 4 
 2 
 * 
 82 
 10 
 98 
 - 
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2 
 2 
 - 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 * 
 - 
 * 
 - 
As at March 31, 2023
 251 
 448 
 39 
 405 
 114  1,257 
 3,686 
Net carrying amount
As at March 31, 2023
 - 
 - 
 - 
 163 
 306 
 469 
 443 
As at March 31, 2022
 4 
 2 
 - 
 127 
 2 
 135 
 443 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 386
Annual Report 
2023
363
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
5 (a) Investment in joint ventures - Non Current
5 (b) Investment in associates - Non Current
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Unquoted equity shares (Fully paid up)
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known as 
Paytm First Games Private Limited) (Refer note 24)
 - 
 - 
68,233,850 (March 31, 2022 : 68,233,850) equity shares of 
INR 10 each
 - 
 - 
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Unquoted equity shares (Fully paid up)
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 2,073 
 1,956 
195,904,900 (March 31, 2022 : 195,904,900) equity shares 
of INR 10 each
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 - 
 - 
980,000 (March 31, 2022 : 980,000) equity shares of INR 10 
each
Paytm Life Insurance Limited
 * 
 * 
49,000 (March 31, 2022 : 49,000) equity shares of INR 10 
each
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 177 
 4 
2,000,000 (March 31, 2022 : 2,000,000) equity shares of INR 
10 each
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited (Formerly known as QorQl 
Private Limited) (refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
2,560,938 (March 31, 2022 : 2,560,938) equity shares of INR 
10 each
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited (Refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
2,879 (March 31, 2022 : 2,879) equity shares of INR 10 each
Total (A)
 2,251 
 1,961 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 387
Annual Report 
2023
364
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
5 (b) Investment in associates - Non Current (Contd..)
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Unquoted compulsorily convertible preference shares 
(Fully paid up)
Socomo Technologies Private Limited (refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
28,800 (March 31, 2022 : 28,800) Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference share of face value of INR 1 each
Infinity Transoft Solutions Private Limited
 79 
 79 
3,618 (March 31, 2022 : 3,618) Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference share of face value of INR 10 each
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited (refer note (i) below)
 188 
 193 
72,373 (March 31, 2022 : 72,373) Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference share of face value of INR 100 each
Total (B)
 267 
 272 
Grand Total [A+B]
 2,518 
 2,233 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 2,518 
 2,233 
Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of investment
 754 
 754 
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
(i) Net of provision for impairment amounting to INR 26 (March 31, 2022: 26), INR 428 (March 31, 
2022: 428) and INR 300 (March 31, 2022: 300) for Paytm Insuretech Private Limited, Socomo 
Technologies Private Limited and Eatgood Technologies Private Limited, respectively.
(ii) Refer note 24 for more details.
6 (a). Other Investments - Current 
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Investments at fair value through profit and loss
Mutual Funds (Unquoted)
Axis Overnight Fund Direct Growth
 532 
 - 
449,099 units (March 31, 2022: Nil units)
Mutual Funds (Quoted)
Axis Liquid Fund - Direct Growth
 179 
 - 
71,602 units (March 31, 2022: Nil units)
Total (A)
 711 
 - 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 388
Annual Report 
2023
365
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Investments at amortised cost
Investments in Debt instruments
Commercial papers (quoted)
 7,694 
Treasury bills (quoted)
 2,801 
Total (B)
 10,495 
 - 
Total Current investments [A+B]
 11,206 
 - 
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Investments at fair value through OCI (refer note (ii) below)
Unquoted equity shares (Fully paid up)
ZEPO Technologies Private Limited
 23 
 23 
3,458 (March 31, 2022 : 3,458) Equity shares of face value 
INR 10 each
Plivo Inc. (Refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
793,696 (March 31, 2022 : 793,696) common stock of USD 
0.00001 each.
Software Is Correct INC (Refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
34,333 (March 31, 2022 : 34,333) common stock of USD 1 each
Stock acquisition rights (PayPay Corporation) (Refer note (iii) 
below)
 11,699 
 9,726 
Total (A)
 11,722 
 9,749 
Investments at fair value through Profit and loss
Unquoted Compulsorily Convertible Preference shares 
(Fully paid up)
RainingClouds Tech Private Limited (Refer note (iv) below)
 - 
 - 
Nil (March 31, 2022 : 3,620) Redeemable Convertible 
Preference Shares of INR 10 each
Fable Fintech Private Limited (formerly known as Avenues 
Payments India Private Limited (Refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
11,379 (March 31, 2022 : 11,379) Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference share of face value of INR 100 each
6 (a). Other Investments - Current (Contd..)
6 (b). Other Investments - Non-Current

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 389
Annual Report 
2023
366
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
6 (b). Other Investments - Non-Current (Contd..)
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Loginext Solutions Private Limited (Refer note (iv) below)
 - 
 - 
Nil (March 31, 2022 : 279,443) Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference share of face value of INR 10 each
Rooter Sports Technologies Private Limited
 40 
 40 
1,160 (March 31, 2022 : 1,160) Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference share of face value INR 10 each
 40 
 40 
Unquoted optionally convertible debentures (Fully paid up)
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 67 
 32 
5,999,731 (March 31, 2022 : 2,999,862) 10% Debentures of 
face value INR 10 each 
Admirable Software Limited 
 263 
 241 
23,109,232 (March 31, 2022 : 23,109,232) 10% Debentures of 
face value INR 10 each 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 165 
 - 
21,951,000 (March 31, 2022 : Nil) 10% Debentures of face 
value INR 10 each 
Massive Mobility Private Limited
 106 
 - 
10,000,000 (March 31, 2022 : Nil) 10% Debentures of face 
value INR 10 each
 601 
 273 
Total (B) 
 641 
 313 
Investments at amortised cost
Investments in Debt instruments
Government securities (quoted)
 884 
 - 
Total (C) 
 884 
 - 
Total Non-Current investments [A+B+C]
 13,247 
 10,062 
Total Current Investments
 11,206 
 - 
Total Non-Current Investments
 13,247 
 10,062 
 24,453 
 10,062 
Aggregate book value of unquoted investments
 12,895 
 10,062 
Aggregate book value of quoted investments
 11,558 
 - 
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 11,558 
 - 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 390
Annual Report 
2023
367
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
6 (b). Other Investments - Non-Current (Contd..)
Notes
(i) The Group holds these investments, however the fair value is Nil.
(ii) Investments at fair value through OCI (fully paid) reflect investment in unquoted equity securities. 
Refer note 31 for determination of their fair values.
(iii) Changes in fair value of equity instruments at FVTOCI represents the fair value gain and related 
foreign exchange component.
(iv) These companies have ceased to exist in the Ministry of Corporate Affairs records as of March 
31, 2023.
6 (c). Loans
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Inter Corporate Loans#
 
with related parties 
(Refer note 26)##
 1,507 
 1,362 
 11 
 471 
 
Others
 - 
 - 
 471 
 500 
Less: Loss allowance for 
inter corporate loans
 - 
 - 
 (425)
 (457)
 1,507 
 1,362 
 57 
 514 
As at
As at
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Secured, considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Unsecured, considered good
 1,507 
 1,362 
 57 
 514 
Loans which have significant 
increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 425 
 457 
Loans Credit Impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,507 
 1,362 
 482 
 971 
Less: Loss allowance for 
inter corporate loans
 - 
 - 
 (425)
 (457)
Total Loans
 1,507 
 1,362 
 57 
 514 
Break-up of security details
# Inter corporate loans are given after complying with the provisions of section 186 of the Companies Act, 
2013. The loans have been given in accordance with terms and conditions of the underlying agreements. 
Outstanding loans carry interest rate in the range of 8% to 24% (March 31, 2022: 5.10% to 12%).

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 391
Annual Report 
2023
368
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
6 (c). Loans (Contd..)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Amount of loan or advance in the nature of loan outstanding as 
specified above
 - 
 470 
Percentage to the total Loans and Advances in the nature of loans
 - 
20%
No loans or advances are recoverable from directors or other officers of the Company either 
severally or jointly with any other person. Nor any loans or advances are recoverable from firms or 
private companies respectively in which any director is a partner, a director or a member, except as 
disclosed in note 26.
## Loan of INR 803, INR 402 and INR 408 has been given to First Games Technology Private Limited 
(formerly known as Paytm First Games Private Limited) on June 7, 2021, September 30, 2021 and 
January 27, 2022 respectively. The Holding Company has the rights of conversion into a variable 
number of shares in First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known as Paytm First Games 
Private Limited) (Joint venture of Paytm Entertainment Limited, wholly owned subsidiary) at fair 
market value and with mutual consent, during the tenure of loan. The interest is payable at the end 
of the repayment period. The loan has been fair valued through profit and loss (FVTPL) since it does 
not meet the SPPI test. 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2022
Face value of loan given
 1,613 
Fair value of loan on inception
 1,317 
Deemed investment in First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly 
known as Paytm First Games Private Limited)#
 296 
# There has been no movement in deemed investment during the year ended March 31, 2023.
The Group has not granted loans to its directors, KMPs and the related parties (as defined under 
Companies Act, 2013) which are repayable on demand or without specifying any terms or period of 
repayment. In certain cases, the Group has the right to demand for payment before specified period.
The details of such loans given to related parties are as follows:

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 392
Annual Report 
2023
369
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Details of loans (gross) as per Section 186 (4) of Companies Act, 2013 and 
Disclosure as per Regulation 34 (3)  read with Part A of Schedule V of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 in respect 
of loans/ advances/ investments outstanding as at year end
6 (c). Loans (Contd..)
Particulars
Interest 
Rates
Gross inter corporate 
loans outstanding as at
Maximum amount of 
inter corporate loans 
outstanding during the year
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
First Games Technology Private 
Limited (formerly known as 
Paytm First Games Private 
Limited) #
8.00%
 1,796 
 1,679 
 1,796 
 1,679 
Paytm Financial Services 
Limited
5.10%
 - 
 471 
 471 
 471 
Eatgood Technologies Private 
Limited
24.00%
 11 
 - 
 11 
 - 
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
Security deposits
 932 
 755 
 1,276 
 1,423 
Less: Loss allowance for security 
deposits
 (18)
 (37)
 (215)
(2)
 A 
 914 
718 
 1,061 
1,421 
Bank balances
Deposits with original maturity for 
more than 12 months (Refer footnote 
(b) and (d) to note 9(a))
 271 
 40,688 
 - 
 - 
Note:
(i) The above loans have been provided for general corporate purposes.
# Excluding fair valuation impact amounting to INR 289 (March 31, 2022: 317)
6 (d). Other financial assets

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 393
Annual Report 
2023
370
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
Others
Loan to employees
 - 
 - 
 2 
 3 
Advances recoverable in cash
 - 
 - 
 365 
 122 
Less: Loss allowance
 - 
 - 
 (8)
 - 
Interest accrued but not due on fixed 
deposits
 20 
 708 
 928 
 514 
Interest accrued on security deposit
 - 
 - 
 140 
 138 
Less: Loss allowance
 - 
 - 
 (138)
 - 
Lease receivable
 18 
 - 
 20 
 - 
 B 
 309 
 41,396 
 1,309 
 777 
Amount recoverable from Payment 
Gateway banks**
Unsecured, considered good
Amount recoverable from other parties
 - 
 - 
 9,359 
 9,006 
Amount recoverable from related 
parties (Refer note 26)
 - 
 - 
 21,144 
 20,115 
Unsecured, considered doubtful
Amount recoverable from other parties
 - 
 - 
 287 
 132 
 - 
 - 
 30,790 
 29,253 
Less : Loss allowance
 - 
 - 
 (287)
 (132)
 C 
 - 
 - 
 30,503 
 29,121 
Unsecured, considered good
Amount recoverable from related 
parties (Refer note 26)#
 - 
 - 
 271 
 411 
Amount recoverable from other 
parties (Refer note 38)
 - 
 - 
 5 
 13 
Amount recoverable from exchange 
for margin money
 - 
 - 
 60 
 75 
Amount recoverable from other parties
 14 
 17 
 218 
 477 
D
 14 
 17 
 554 
 976 
 Total [A+B+C+D] 
 1,237 
 42,131 
 33,427 
 32,295 
6 (d). Other financial assets (Contd..)
#Includes payable of INR Nil (March 31, 2022: INR 2,944) which the Group has set-off with the advance 
of INR Nil (March 31, 2022: INR 2,260) as the Group has contractual right to offset the payable with 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 394
Annual Report 
2023
371
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
the advance and also has the intention to settle the same on a net basis. The net payable of INR Nil 
(March 31, 2022: INR 684) is grouped under Payable to merchants under Other financial liabilities 
shown in Note 12(c).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
** The amount represent recoverable from payment gateway banks on account of credit card/debit 
card and net banking/UPI transactions related to third party merchants.
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
Break up of financial assets
6 (d). Other financial assets (Contd..)
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
At equity method
Investment in joint ventures 
(Refer note 5(a))
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Investment in associates 
(Refer note 5(b))
 2,518 
 2,233 
 - 
 - 
2,518 
 2,233 
 - 
 - 
At amortised cost
Trade receivables (Refer 
note 7)
 - 
 - 
 12,528 
 7,464 
Cash and cash equivalents 
(Refer note 9(a))
 - 
 - 
 33,120 
 13,790 
Bank balances other than 
cash and cash equivalents 
(Refer note 9(b))
 - 
 - 
 37,275 
 38,230 
Inter corporate loans (Refer 
note 6(c))
 - 
 - 
 57 
 514 
Other investments (Refer 
note 6(a), 6(b))
 884 
 - 
 10,495 
 - 
Others (Refer note 6(d))
 1,237 
 42,131 
 33,427 
 32,295 
 2,121 
 42,131 
 1,26,902 
 92,293 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 395
Annual Report 
2023
372
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
6 (d). Other financial assets (Contd..)
7.	 Trade receivables
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
At fair value
Other investments at fair 
value through OCI (Refer 
note 6(b))
 11,722 
 9,749 
 - 
 - 
Inter corporate loans at fair 
value through Profit and loss 
(Refer note 6(c))
 1,507 
 1,362 
 - 
 - 
Investments at fair value 
through Profit and loss 
(Refer note 6(a), 6(b))
 641 
 313 
 711 
 - 
 13,870 
 11,424 
 711 
 - 
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Trade Receivables
 13,758 
 7,606 
Receivables from related parties (Refer notes (i) & (ii) below)
 702 
 1,444 
Receivables from other parties (Refer note 38)
 16 
 30 
Less: Loss allowance
 (1,948)
 (1,616)
 12,528 
 7,464 
Current
 12,528 
 7,464 
Non-current
 - 
 - 
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Trade receivables
Secured, considered good
 - 
 - 
Unsecured, considered good
 13,394 
 8,364 
Trade receivable which have significant increase in credit risk
 14 
 - 
Trade receivable Credit Impaired
 1,068 
 716 
Total
 14,476 
 9,080 
Less: Loss allowance
 (1,948)
 (1,616)
Total Trade receivables
 12,528 
 7,464 
Break-up of security details

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 396
Annual Report 
2023
373
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
(i) No trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the Company either 
severally or jointly with any other person. Nor any trade or other receivable are due from firms or 
private companies respectively in which any director is a partner, a director or a member, except 
as disclosed in note 26.
(ii) For related party receivables, Refer note 26
(iii) Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and generally carry a credit period of 30 days.
Trade Receivables ageing schedule for year ended March 31, 2023
7.	 Trade receivables (Contd..)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
Dues#
Not 
due
Less 
than 6 
months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 
years
  2-3 
years 
 More 
than 3 
years 
 Total 
(i) Undisputed Trade 
Receivables – considered 
good
 6,271  3,778 
 2,302 
 396  400 
 140 
 107  13,394 
(ii) Undisputed Trade 
Receivables – which have 
significant increase in 
credit risk
 - 
 - 
 3 
 2 
 7 
 1 
 1 
 14 
(iii) Undisputed Trade 
Receivables – credit 
impaired
 - 
 1 
 1 
 4 
 18 
 4 
 15 
 43 
(iv) Disputed Trade 
Receivables–considered 
good 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v) Disputed Trade 
Receivables – which have 
significant increase in 
credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi) Disputed Trade 
Receivables – credit 
impaired
 30 
 9 
 112 
 115 
 91 
 61 
 607 
 1,025 
Total
 6,301 3,788 
 2,418 
 517 
 516 
 206 
 730 14,476 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 397
Annual Report 
2023
374
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Trade Receivables ageing schedule for year ended March 31, 2022
7.	 Trade receivables (Contd..)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
Dues#
Not 
due
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 
years
  2-3 
years 
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i) Undisputed Trade 
receivables – 
considered good
 3,415  1,794 
 2,023 
 528 
 370 
 123 
 111  8,364 
(ii) Undisputed Trade 
Receivables 
– which have 
significant increase 
in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 * 
 - 
 - 
 - 
*
(iii) Undisputed Trade 
Receivables – 
credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 4 
 * 
 10 
 * 
 3 
 17 
(iv) Disputed Trade 
Receivables–
considered good 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v) Disputed Trade 
Receivables 
– which have 
significant increase 
in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi) Disputed Trade 
Receivables – 
credit impaired
 - 
 * 
 2 
 14 
 28 
 10 
 645 
 699 
Total
 3,415  1,794 
 2,029 
 542 
 408 
 133 
 759  9,080 
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
#The receivable is ‘unbilled’ because the group has not yet issued an invoice; however, the balance 
has been included under trade receivables (as opposed to contract assets) because the Group has 
an unconditional right to consideration.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 398
Annual Report 
2023
375
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
Capital advances                                
Unsecured, considered good 
 565 
 762 
 - 
 - 
Doubtful 
 1 
 1 
 - 
 - 
 566 
 763 
 - 
 - 
Less: Provision for doubtful 
advances 
 (1)
 (1)
 - 
 - 
 A
 565 
 762 
 - 
 - 
Advances other than capital advances 
Advances to vendors 
Unsecured, considered good 
 2,042 
 1,636 
 4,982 
 4,535 
Doubtful 
 - 
 - 
 275 
 202 
 2,042 
 1,636 
 5,257 
 4,737 
Less: Provision for doubtful advances 
 - 
 - 
 (275)
 (202)
B
 2,042 
 1,636 
 4,982 
 4,535 
Others
Balances with government authorities
 
Goods and services tax input credit
 328 
 500 
 6,045 
 7,987 
 
Value Added Tax (VAT) credit 
receivable 
 - 
 - 
 3 
 3 
Advance tax [net of provision] 
 - 
 - 
 28 
 29 
Prepayments
 267 
 134 
 606 
 1,366 
Advances to related parties* 
(Refer note 26)
 - 
 - 
 614 
 1,237 
C
 595 
 634 
 7,296 
 10,622 
Total (A+B+C)  
 3,202 
 3,032 
 12,278 
 15,157 
8.	Other assets
*No advances are recoverable from directors or other officers of the Company either severally or jointly 
with any other person. Nor any advance are recoverable from firms or private companies respectively 
in which any director is a partner, a director or a member, except as disclosed in note 26.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 399
Annual Report 
2023
376
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
9(a). Cash and cash equivalents
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Cash on hand  
 * 
 * 
Balance with banks 
- On current accounts 
 27,390 
 12,742 
- Deposits with original maturity for less than 3 months 
 5,730 
 1,048 
 33,120 
 13,790 
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Deposits with original maturity of more than 3 months but 
less than 12 months (Refer footnote (b) and (d) to note 9(a)) 
 19,533 
 17,340 
Deposits with original maturity for more than 12 months 
(Refer footnote (b) and (d) to note 9(a)) 
 17,742 
 15,342 
Other deposits with banks# 
 - 
 5,548 
 37,275 
 38,230 
Notes:
(a) There are no repatriation restrictions with regard to cash and cash equivalents as at the end of 
the reporting period and prior period.
(b) Fixed deposits amounting to INR 3,733 (March 31, 2022: 1,998) included in note 6(d) and 9(b) are 
marked under lien by banks for providing bank overdraft, issuing bank guarantees under various 
contract, Indian Clearing Corporation Limited and exchanges.
(c) Balance with banks on current accounts includes balance of Initial Public Offer (IPO) proceeds 
of INR 10,007 (March 31, 2022: 736) which will be utilised as stated in the prospectus for IPO.
(d) Fixed deposits amounting to INR 31,000 (March 31, 2022: 70,900) included in note 6(d) and 9(b) 
will be utilised as stated in the prospectus for IPO.
9(b). Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents	
#Deposits with banks amounting to INR Nil (March 31, 2022 : 5,548) are held by banks as security 
against bank guarantees.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 400
Annual Report 
2023
377
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
10(a). Equity share capital
 Number of 
Shares 
 Amount 
Authorised equity share capital
As at April 1, 2021
 104,106,600 
 1,041 
Increase/ (decrease) during the year
 - 
 - 
Adjustment for Sub-division of Equity Shares#
 936,959,400 
 - 
As at March 31, 2022
 1,041,066,000 
 1,041 
Increase/ (decrease) during the year
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2023
 1,041,066,000 
 1,041 
Terms/ rights attached to equity shares
All the equity shares issued shall rank pari passu and have a par value of Rs. 1 per share. Each 
shareholder is eligible for one vote per share held only.
#Pursuant to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Holding Company 
held on June 30, 2021, each equity share of face value of INR 10 per share was sub-divided into ten 
equity shares of face value of INR 1 per share, with effect from the record date, i.e., June 30, 2021.
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up shares
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022 
633,788,217 equity shares of INR 1 each fully paid up (March 31, 
2022 : 648,561,414 equity shares of INR 1 each fully paid up) 
 634 
 649 
Total issued, subscribed and fully paid-up share capital 
 634 
 649 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 401
Annual Report 
2023
378
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
10(a). Equity share capital (Contd..)
a.	 Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of 
the reporting year
	
Equity shares
  March 31, 2023 
  March 31, 2022 
 Number 
 Amount 
 Number 
 Amount 
Shares outstanding at the beginning 
of the year#
 648,561,414 
 649 
 60,260,013 
 605 
Shares issued during the year##
 - 
 - 
 38,646,058 
 39 
Shares issued during the year - ESOP
 793,549 
 1 
 4,627,616 
 5 
Adjustment for Sub-Division of 
Equity Shares
 - 
 -  543,217,887 
 - 
Impact on derecognition of trust
 - 
 - 
 1,809,840 
 - 
Shares buy-back (Refer note 30)
 (15,566,746)
 (16)
 - 
 - 
Shares outstanding at the end of 
the year
 633,788,217 
 634  648,561,414 
 649 
 
# Net of treasury shares, April 1, 2021: 222,391 of face value of INR 10 each, at nil cost through 
Paytm Associate Benefit Welfare Trust (formerly known as One97 Employee Welfare Trust)
 
## Shares issued during the year ended March 31, 2022 includes 41,407 shares of face value of 
INR 10 each issued out of treasury shares 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 402
Annual Report 
2023
379
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
10(a). Equity share capital (Contd..)
  March 31, 2023 
  March 31, 2022 
 Number of 
Shares held 
 % holding 
 Number of 
Shares held 
 % holding 
Antfin (Netherlands) Holding B.V.
 158,080,740 
24.94%
 161,420,141 
24.89%
SVF India Holding (Cayman) Limited 
 81,610,229 
12.88%
 113,262,230 
17.46%
Mr.Vijay Shekhar Sharma
 57,845,053 
9.13%
 57,673,032 
8.89%
SAIF III Mauritius Company Limited
 68,735,489 
10.85%
 68,735,489 
10.60%
Alibaba.com Singapore E-Commerce 
Private Limited
 - 
-
 40,631,822 
6.26%
b.	 Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Holding Company
	
Name of shareholder
c.	 Shares reserved for issue under options
 
For details of shares reserved for issue under the employee stock options plan (ESOP) of the 
Group (Refer note 25).
d.	 Aggregate number of bonus shares issued, shares bought back and share 
issued for consideration other than cash during the period of five years 
immediately preceding the reporting date:
 
The Holding Company has issued 333,035 shares for consideration other than cash during the 
period of five years immediately preceding the reporting date. The Holding Company has not 
issued bonus shares during the period of five years immediately preceding the reporting date. The 
Holding Company has bought back 15,566,746 shares during the period of five years immediately 
preceding the reporting date.
e.	 Shareholding of Promoters
Shares held by Promoters at the end of the year
% Change during 
the year
Promoter Name
No. of Shares
% of Total Shares
Nil
Not Applicable
 
As of March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022, the Holding Company does not have an identifiable 
promoter in terms of the Companies Act, 2013. The Holding Company is a professionaly managed 
Company. Accordingly, disclosures related to promoter shareholding is not applicable.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 403
Annual Report 
2023
380
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
10(b). Other equity
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022 
1.	 Reserves and Surplus
 
Securities premium
 263,530 
 273,166 
 
Employee stock options outstanding account (ESOP Reserve)
 23,962 
 10,022 
 
Retained earnings
 (169,664)
 (151,833)
 
Capital Redemption Reserve
 16 
 - 
Total reserve and surplus (A)
 117,844 
 131,355 
1.	 Reserve and Surplus
(i)	Securities premium
 
Opening balance
 273,166 
 189,252 
 
Add: transferred from ESOP Reserve on exercise of stock 
options
 919 
 2,290 
 
Add: amount received on issue of shares
6
 83,023 
 
Add: exercise of share options
 * 
 2 
 
Less: amount utilised for share issue expenses
 - 
 (1,401)
 
Less: buy-back of equity shares (including transaction cost)
 (8,568)
 - 
 
Less: transfer on account of buy-back of equity shares
 (16)
 - 
 
Less: tax on buy-back of equity shares
 (1,977)
 - 
	
Balance at the end of the year
 263,530 
 273,166 
(ii) Employee stock options outstanding account 
(ESOP Reserve)
 
Opening balance
 10,022 
 4,264 
 
Add: share based payment expense
 14,553 
 8,093 
 
Add: share based payment reserve on account of joint 
ventures and associates
 321 
 78 
 
Less: amount transferred to securities premium on 
exercise of stock options
 (919)
 (2,290)
 
Less: reversal on forfeiture of stock options
 (3)
 (17)
 
Less: adjustment on cancellation of ESOP
 (12)
 (106)
	
Balance at the end of the year
 23,962 
 10,022 
(iii) Retained earnings
 
Opening balance
 (151,833)
 (128,717)
 
Loss for the year
 (17,759)
 (23,929)
 
Less: remeasurement of post-employee benefit obligation
 (41)
 (21)
 
Add: transfer from employee stock options outstanding
 3 
 17 
 
Add: adjustment on cancellation of ESOP
 12 
 106 
 
Add: amount transferred on account of sale of investment
 - 
 - 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 404
Annual Report 
2023
381
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
10(b). Other equity (Contd..)
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022 
 
Add: other adjustments#
 (46)
 711 
	
Balance at the end of the year
 (169,664)
 (151,833)
(iv) Capital Redemption Reserve
 
Opening balance
 - 
 - 
 
Transfer on account of buyback of equity shares
 16 
 - 
	
Balance at the end of the year
 16 
 - 
2.	 Share application money pending allotment
 
Opening balance
 * 
 2 
 
Less: exercise of share options
 * 
 (2)
 
Receipt of share application money (pending allotment)
 1 
 * 
	
Balance at the end of the year (B)
 1 
 * 
3.	 Other reserves- FVTOCI
 
Opening balance
 9,343 
 (33)
 
Net change in fair value of equity instruments at FVTOCI
 1,030 
 9,376 
 
Transfer from FVTOCI to retained earning#
 42 
 - 
	
Balance at the end of the year (C) 
 10,415 
 9,343 
4.	 Other reserves- FCTR
 
Opening balance
 169 
 (25)
 
Net change during the year
 1,093 
 194 
	
Balance at the end of the year (D)
 1,262 
 169 
	
Total other equity (A+B+C+D)
 129,522 
 140,867 
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
# Includes an amount of INR 42 (March 31, 2022:  Nil) on account of disposal of investment and 
INR 4 (March 31, 2022: INR 711) on settlement of incentive liability through Paytm Associate Benefit 
Welfare Trust (formerly known as One97 Employee Welfare Trust)
Nature and purpose of reserves
(i)	Securities premium
 
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve is utilised in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act.
(ii) Employee stock options outstanding account (ESOP Reserve)	
	
 
Employee stock options outstanding account is used to recognise the grant date fair value of 
options issued to employees under the One 97 Employee Stock Option Plan.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 405
Annual Report 
2023
382
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
(iii) FVTOCI Reserve	 	
	
	
	
	 	
	
 
The Holding Company has elected to recognise changes in the fair values of the certain investments 
in equity instruments in other comprehensive income. These changes are accumulated within 
the FVTOCI reserve within equity. The Holding Company transfers amounts from this reserve to 
retained earning when relevant equity securities are derecognised.
(iv) Capital Redemption Reserve		 	
	
	
	
	
	
 
As per Companies Act, 2013, capital redemption reserve is created when company purchases 
its own shares out of free reserves or securities premium. A sum equal to the nominal value of 
the shares so purchased is transferred to capital redemption reserve. The reserve is utilised in 
accordance with the provisions of section 69 of the Companies Act, 2013.
(v) FCTR Reserve	 	
	
	
	
	
	 	
 
Exchange differences arising on translation of assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the 
Group’s foreign subsidiaries are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated 
separately in foreign currency translation reserve. The amounts recognised are transferred to 
the consolidated statement of profit and loss on disposal of the related foreign subsidiaries.
11. Provisions
10(b). Other equity (Contd..)
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Provision for employee 
benefits
Provision for gratuity 
(Refer note 27)
 527 
 285 
 17 
 8 
Provision for leave benefits*
 - 
 - 
 1,184 
 805 
Provision for LTIP
 90 
 - 
 325 
 - 
Other provisions
Provision for income tax
 - 
 - 
 46 
 6 
Other provisions
 - 
 22 
 3 
 4 
 617 
 307 
 1,575 
 823 
*The entire amount of the provision of INR 1,184 (March 31, 2022: INR 805) is presented as current, 
since the Group does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement for any of these obligations. 
However, based on past experience, the Group does not expect all employees to avail the full amount 
of accrued leave or require payment for such leave within the next 12 months. The amount not 
expected to be settled within next twelve months is INR 898 (March 31, 2022: INR 613).

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 406
Annual Report 
2023
383
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
12(a) Borrowings 
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Lease 
Liabilities
Borrowings
Lease 
Liabilities
Borrowings
Opening debt
 2,214 
 1 
 671 
 5,449 
Non cash adjustments (includes 
termination of leases)
 439 
 - 
 1,859 
 - 
Cash flows
 (440)
 19 
 (316)
 (5,448)
Interest expense
 198 
 1 
 86 
 294 
Interest paid
 (198)
 (1)
 (86)
 (294)
Closing debt
 2,213 
 20 
 2,214 
 1 
As at
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Current
Secured from banks
Loan repayable on demand- bank overdraft (refer note (i) below)
 20 
 1 
Total borrowings
 20 
 1 
Note:
(i) In respect of one subsidiary, Bank Overdraft carry interest at 3 months MCLR + 1% per 
annum with monthly rest (8.30% - 9.85%). This is secured against current assets, 100% 
cash margin of fixed deposits held with bank and personal guarantee of two directors. 
As at March 31, 2022, the rate of interest was 8.5%. This was secured against total assets and 
personal guarantee of two directors.
Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities
12(b) Trade payables	
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Current 
Trade payables 
 8,328 
 7,277 
Trade payables to related parties (Refer note 26) 
 216 
 158 
Trade payables to other parties (Refer note 38) 
 45 
 79 
 8,589 
 7,514 
(i) Total Outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises 
 417 
 229 
(ii) Total Outstanding dues other than (i) above 
 8,172 
 7,285 
 8,589 
 7,514 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 407
Annual Report 
2023
384
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
12(b) Trade payables (Contd..)
Trade Payables ageing schedule for the year ended March 31, 2023
Trade Payables ageing schedule for the year ended March 31, 2022
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
Dues
Not due
less 
than 1 
year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
 More 
than 3 
years 
 Total 
(i) Undisputed - MSME
 52 
 255 
 90 
 1 
 * 
 1 
 399 
(ii) Undisputed - Others
 5,730 
1,038 
 971 
 7 
 85 
 168 
 7,999 
(iii)Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 * 
 4 
 * 
 1 
 13 
 18 
(iv)Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 4 
 65 
 11 
 16 
 77 
 173 
Total
 5,782 
1,297 
 1,130 
 19 
 102 
 259 
 8,589 
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
Dues
Not due
less 
than 1 
year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
 More 
than 3 
years 
 Total 
(i) Undisputed - MSME
 17 
 73 
 115 
 5 
 * 
 1 
 211 
(ii) Undisputed - Others
 5,693 
 397 
 871 
 43 
 72 
 126 
 7,202 
(iii)Disputed dues – MSME
 - 
 10 
 2 
 5 
 1 
 - 
 18 
(iv)Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 5 
 9 
 36 
 33 
 83 
Total
 5,710 
 480 
 993 
 62 
 109 
 160 
 7,514 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 408
Annual Report 
2023
385
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Current
Payable to merchants#
 21,617 
 11,931 
Payable on purchase of fixed assets
 670 
 427 
Employee benefits payable
 1,382 
 1,256 
Other amount received from customers
 1,401 
 1,597 
Clients and Exchanges payables
 2,045 
 2,172 
Others
 387 
 363 
Others- related parties (Refer note 26)
 59 
 133 
Others- Other parties (Refer note 38)
 25 
 126 
 27,586 
 18,005 
12(c) Other financial liabilities
#The Group uses Nodal Accounts to receive money through debit/credit card and net banking 
transactions towards all transactions occuring on its portal, as well as to settle the respective 
merchants. The amounts collected but yet to be transferred to merchants are netted off with nodal 
account having balance of INR 9,965 (March 31, 2022: INR 11,013). Gross payable to merchant includes 
payable to related parties INR 5,350 (March 31, 2022: INR 2,328) (refer note 26).
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group 
Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities:
(i) Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and generally carry credit period of 30 days.
 
Note: All financial liabilities are carried at amortized cost

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 409
Annual Report 
2023
386
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
As at  
March 31, 2023
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Statutory dues payable:
 
Tax deducted at source payable
 1,013 
 1,124 
 
GST Payable
 2,976 
 3,101 
 
Tax collected at source payable
 22 
 100 
 
Provident fund payable
 97 
 100 
 
Other statutory dues
 80 
 59 
Other payable - related parties (Refer note 26)
 - 
 30 
Liability towards corporate social responsibility
 1 
 - 
 4,189 
 4,514 
13(b). Contract liabilities
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Contract liabilities 
 2,367 
 3,165 
 2,573 
 2,076 
 2,367 
 3,165 
 2,573 
 2,076 
(i) For related party balances, Refer note 26.
Revenue recognized in relation to carried forward contract liabilities
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
 Contract liabilities recognized as revenue during the year 
 991 
 1,054 
 991 
 1,054 
13(a). Other current liabilities

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 410
Annual Report 
2023
387
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
14. Revenue from operations
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Revenue from contracts with customers
 
Sale of services 
 79,044 
 49,625 
Other operating revenue
 
Incentive income# 
 859 
 117 
 79,903 
 49,742 
#There are no unfulfilled conditions or other contingencies attached to these grants.
Disaggregated details of revenue:
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
(i)	Nature of services
	
Payment and financial services 
 63,845 
 38,577 
 
 
Payments services to Consumers
 21,050 
 15,286 
 
 
Payments services to Merchants 
 27,391 
 18,919 
 
 
Others (including Financial Services) 
 15,404 
 4,372 
	
Commerce and cloud services 
 15,199 
 11,048 
 
 
Commerce 
 6,153 
 3,736 
 
 
Cloud 
 9,046 
 7,312 
 79,044 
 49,625 
(ii) Timing of revenue recognition 
 
Services provided at a point in time 
 73,215 
 46,862 
 
Services provided over a period of time 
 5,829 
 2,763 
 79,044 
 49,625 
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Interest income
 
- on bank deposits 
 2,739 
 2,297 
     - Interest on Income tax refund 
 25 
 3 
 
- Interest on Inter corporate loans - measured at 
amortized cost 
 6 
 65 
 
- Interest Income on unwinding of discount - financial 
assets measured at amortized cost 
 411 
 92 
15. Other income

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 411
Annual Report 
2023
388
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Salaries, bonus and incentives 
 21,332 
 14,848 
Contribution to provident and other funds 
 731 
 499 
Share based payment expenses (Refer note 25) 
 14,558 
 8,093 
Leave encashment expense 
 657 
 560 
Gratuity expenses (Refer note 27) 
 216 
 146 
Staff welfare expenses 
 289 
 173 
 37,783 
 24,319 
16. Employee benefits expense
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (Refer note 3(a))
 4,311 
 2,116 
Depreciation on right-of-use assets# (Refer note 3(b)) 
 444 
 271 
Amortization of intangible assets (Refer note 4) 
 98 
 86 
 4,853 
 2,473 
17. Depreciation and amortization expense
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
 
- Interest Income on debentures -measured at amortized 
cost 
 - 
 70 
 
- Interest income on security deposit 
 33 
 86 
Fair value gain on financial instruments measured at FVTPL (net) 
 609 
 215 
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (net) 
 25 
 7 
Liabilities no longer required written back 
 92 
 19 
Exchange differences (net) 
 8 
 - 
Miscellanous Income 
 149 
 47 
 4,097 
 2,901 
15. Other income (Contd..)
#This amount is net of cross charge of INR Nil (March 31, 2022: INR 2) (Refer note 3(b)).

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 412
Annual Report 
2023
389
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Interest 
- Interest and finance charges on lease liabilities 
(Refer note 3(b))
 198 
 86 
- on borrowings at amortised cost 
 1 
 294 
- on late deposit of statutory dues 
 3 
 2 
- on others 
 31 
 12 
233 
 394 
18. Finance costs
19. Other expenses
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Connectivity and content fees
 3,111 
 2,259 
Legal and professional fees (Refer note (i) below)
 804 
 1,279 
Subcontract expenses
 884 
 879 
Contest, ticketing and FASTag expenses
 1,653 
 516 
Logistic, deployment & collection cost
 1,550 
 667 
Provision for advances
 73 
 62 
Loss allowance for financial assets
 794 
 432 
Trade receivables/ advance written off
 143 
 391 
Repair and maintenance
 798 
 347 
Insurance
 265 
 170 
Rent (Refer note 29)
 67 
 100 
Communication costs
 63 
 41 
Rates and taxes
 97 
 108 
Travelling and conveyance
 483 
 130 
Exchange differences (net)
 - 
 67 
Bank Charges
 3 
 25 
Goods and services tax expense off
 51 
 19 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure 
(Refer note 41)
 32 
 14 
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets written off
 17 
 11 
Miscellaneous expenses
 267 
 217 
 11,155 
 7,734 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 413
Annual Report 
2023
390
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Impairment of Goodwill (Refer note (a) below and note 36)
 - 
 (24)
 - 
 (24)
19. Other expenses (Contd..)
(i)	Legal and professional fees includes
a) an amount of INR 74 (March 31, 2022 : INR 59) as remuneration to non-executive and independent 
directors.
b) an amount of INR 21 (March 31, 2022 : INR 49) as payment to a Law firm in which one of the non-
executive and independent director is interested. Further, payment of INR 4 (March 31, 2022: 
INR 1) to the said firm which is in the nature of share issue expenses/ share buy-back expenses 
(transaction cost) has been adjusted with securities premium account.
20. Exceptional items
a) During previous year, the Group basis its assessment of future business projections of Orbgen 
Technologies Private Limited had recognized provision for impairment in the carrying value of 
its goodwill of INR 24. The impairment loss for Orbgen Technologies Private Limited was based 
on the equity value calculated based on cash flow projections with the business plan used for 
impairment testing using discounted cash flow method (Refer note 36).
21. Earnings per shares (EPS)
Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of 
the parent by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 
by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted 
average number of equity shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential 
equity shares into equity shares. 
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted EPS computations:
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Loss attributable to equity holders for basic and diluted 
earnings
 (17,759)
 (23,929)
Weighted average number of equity shares for basic and 
diluted EPS#
 645,793,553 
 621,763,714 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 414
Annual Report 
2023
391
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
21. Earnings per shares (EPS) (Contd..)
* In view of losses during the current year and previous year, the options which are anti-dilutive 
have been ignored in the calculation of diluted earnings per share. Accordingly, there is no variation 
between basic and diluted earnings per share.
# Pursuant to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Holding Company 
held on June 30, 2021, each equity share of face value of INR 10 per share was sub-divided into ten 
equity shares of face value of INR 1 per share, with effect from record date, i.e., June 30, 2021.
22. Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
The preparation of the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, 
assets and liabilities, and the accompanying disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. 
Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material 
adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
Estimates and assumptions
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the 
reporting date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities within the next 12 months, are described below.
Deferred taxes and Income taxes
Deferred tax assets can be recognised for deductible temporary differences (including unused tax 
losses) only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary difference can be utilized. Most of the companies forming part of the Group are 
yet to generate operating profits, Management has assessed that as at March 31, 2023 it is not probable 
that such deferred tax assets can be realised in excess of available taxable temporary differences. 
Management re-assesses unrecognized deferred tax assets at each reporting date and recognizes 
to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset 
to be recovered. For details about deferred tax assets, refer note 28.
During FY 2019-20 (AY 2020-21) a shareholder of the Holding Company holding 30.33% of shares 
of the Holding Company had transferred its shareholding to its group company (both entities being 
100% subsidiaries of the same ultimate parent entity). Based on advice from the Holding Company’s 
tax experts, Management has assessed that a mere change in shareholding within the same group will 
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Earnings per share (INR per share of INR 1 each)
Basic
 (27)
 (38)
Diluted*
 (27)
 (38)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 415
Annual Report 
2023
392
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
not be an affirmative position to say that the shareholding has been changed. Further, since the shares 
of the Holding Company carrying not less than fifty-one percent of the voting power were beneficially 
held by persons, i.e. ultimate holding company of the aforesaid entities, who beneficially held shares 
of the Holding Company carrying not less than fifty-one percent of the voting power on the last day 
of the year or years in which the loss was incurred, the Holding Company shall be entitled to carry 
forward and set off these losses against the taxable income of future years in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 79 of the Income Tax Act, 1961. (refer note 28)
Defined benefit plans (gratuity benefits) 
The cost of the defined benefit gratuity plan and the present value of the gratuity obligation are 
determined using actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions that 
may differ from actual developments in the future. These include the determination of the discount 
rate, future salary increases and mortality rates. Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and 
its long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. 
All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. 
In determining the appropriate discount rate for plans operated , the management considers the 
interest rates of government bonds. The mortality rate is based on publicly available mortality tables. 
The mortality tables tend to change only at interval in response to demographic changes. Future salary 
increases and gratuity increases are based on expected future inflation rates. For further details about 
gratuity obligations, refer note 27.
Fair value measurement of financial instruments
When the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the consolidated balance 
sheet cannot be measured based on quoted prices in active markets, their fair value is measured 
using valuation techniques including the DCF model, Price of Recent Investment (PORI) method and 
Comparable Company Multiples (CCM) method. The inputs to these models are taken from observable 
markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required in establishing 
fair values. For further details about Fair value measurement, refer note 31.
Impairment of financial assets
The Group assesses on a forward looking basis the expected credit risks associated with its assets 
carried at amortized cost. The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been 
a significant increase in credit risk. Note 32 details how the Group determines whether there has been 
a significant increase in credit risk.
Impairment reviews
Goodwill is tested for impairment at-least on an annual basis or when events that occur / changes 
in circumstances indicate that the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying value. In 
22. Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
(Contd..)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 416
Annual Report 
2023
393
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
22. Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
(Contd..)
calculating the value in use, the Group is required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
inter-alia concerning the growth in EBITDA, long-term growth rates; discount rates to reflect the risks 
involved. Also, judgement is involved in determining the CGU for allocation of the goodwill.  For details 
about impairment reviews, refer note 36.
Incentives
The Group provide incentives to users in various forms including cashbacks to promote its platform. 
Incentives to  users to whom the Group has a performance obligation is recorded as a reduction of 
revenue to the extent of the revenue earned. For the incentives to other transacting users to whom the 
Group has no performance obligation, management is required to determine whether the incentives are 
in substance a payment on behalf of the merchants and should therefore be recorded as a reduction of 
revenue or as marketing and promotional expenses. Some of the factors considered in management’s 
evaluation of such incentives being payments on behalf of  merchants include whether the incentives 
are given at the Group’s discretion, contractual agreements with the merchants, business strategy and 
objectives and design of the incentive program(s), etc.
23. Group information
A. Entities over which Group exercises control
 
The Group’s subsidiaries as at March 31, 2023 are set out below. Unless otherwise stated, they 
have share capital consisting solely of equity shares that are held directly by the Group, and the 
proportion of ownership interests held equals the voting rights held by the Group. 
 
The consolidated financial statements of the Group includes subsidiaries listed in the table below:
Name
Country of 
incorporation/  
Place of 
business
Ownership interest 
held by the group
Ownership interest 
held by non-
controlling interest
As at  
March 
31, 2023
As at  
March 
31, 2022
As at  
March 
31, 2023
As at  
March 
31, 2022
Indian subsidiaries
One 97 Communications India 
Limited 
India
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Wasteland Entertainment Private 
Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies 
Private Limited ('MQ') (refer note 
(i) and (v) below)
India
66.34%
66.34%
33.66%
33.66%

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 417
Annual Report 
2023
394
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Name
Country of 
incorporation/  
Place of 
business
Ownership interest 
held by the group
Ownership interest 
held by non-
controlling interest
As at  
March 
31, 2023
As at  
March 
31, 2022
As at  
March 
31, 2023
As at  
March 
31, 2022
Urja Money Private Limited ('Urja') 
(refer note (iv) below)
India
83.34%
83.34%
16.66%
16.66%
Little Internet Private Limited 
('Little')
India
62.53%
62.53%
37.47%
37.47%
Paytm Entertainment Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Paytm Money Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Orbgen Technologies Private 
Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Paytm Services Private Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Paytm Payments Services Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Paytm Insurance Broking Private 
Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Foreign Subsidiaries
One97 Communications Nigeria 
Limited
Nigeria
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
One97 Communications FZ-LLC
Dubai
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
One97 Communications 
Singapore Private Limited 
('OCSPL') (refer note (vi) below)
Singapore
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
One97 USA Inc.
USA
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Subsidiaries of Subsidiaries
One97 Communications Rwanda 
Private Limited 
(subsidiary of OCSPL)
Rwanda
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
One97 Communications Tanzania 
Private Limited 
(subsidiary of OCSPL)
Tanzania
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
One97 Communications 
Bangladesh Private Limited 
(subsidiary of OCSPL)
Bangladesh
70.00%
70.00%
30.00%
30.00%
One97 Uganda Limited 
(subsidiary of OCSPL)
Uganda
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
23. Group information (Contd.. )

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 418
Annual Report 
2023
395
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Name
Country of 
incorporation/  
Place of 
business
Ownership interest 
held by the group
Ownership interest 
held by non-
controlling interest
As at  
March 
31, 2023
As at  
March 
31, 2022
As at  
March 
31, 2023
As at  
March 
31, 2022
One97 Ivory Coast SA 
(subsidiary of OCSPL)
Ivory Coast
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
One97 Benin SA 
(subsidiary of OCSPL)
Benin
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Paytm Labs Inc. 
(subsidiary of OCSPL)
Canada
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
One97 Communications Malaysia 
Sdn. Bhd. (subsidiary of OCSPL)
Malaysia
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
One Nine Seven Communication 
Nepal Private Limited 
(subsidiary of OCSPL)
Nepal
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
One Nine Seven Digital Solutions 
Limited (subsidiary of OCSPL)
Kenya
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
One Nine Seven Communications 
Saudi Arabia For Communication 
and Information Technology 
(subsidiary of OCSPL)
Saudi Arabia
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Xceed IT Solution Private Limited 
(subsidiary of MQ)
India
66.34%
66.34%
33.66%
33.66%
Fincollect Services Private 
Limited (subsidiary of Urja)
India
83.34%
83.34%
16.66%
16.66%
Nearbuy India Private Limited 
(subsidiary of Little)
India
62.53%
62.53%
37.47%
37.47%
23. Group information (Contd.. )

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 419
Annual Report 
2023
396
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
B.	Entities over which the Group exercise significant influence - Associates
 
The Group's associates as at March 31, 2023 are set out below. Unless otherwise stated, the 
entities listed below have share capital consisting solely of equity shares which are held directly 
by the group. The proportion of ownership interest is the same as the proportion of voting rights 
held except otherwise stated.
23. Group information (Contd.. )
Name
Country of 
incorporation/  
Place of 
business
%  equity interest
Accounting 
method
As at  
March 
31, 2023
As at  
March 
31, 2022
Paytm Payments Bank Limited 
(refer note (ii) below)
India
49.00%
49.00% Equity method
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited 
(Formerly known as QoRQL Private 
Limited)
India
32.45%
32.45% Equity method
Paytm General Insurance Limited
India
49.00%
49.00% Equity method
Paytm Life Insurance Limited
India
49.00%
49.00% Equity method
Paytm Financial Services Limited ('PFSL')
India
48.78%
48.78% Equity method
Foster Payment Networks Private 
Limited (subsidiary of PFSL) 
(refer note (vii) below)
India
48.80%
48.80% Equity method
Admirable Software Limited (w.e.f. 
August 17, 2021) (subsidiary of PFSL)
India
48.78%
48.78% Equity method
Infinity Transoft Solution Private 
Limited (refer note (i) below)
India
26.57%
26.57% Equity method
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited 
(refer note (i) below)
India
23.24%
23.24% Equity method
Socomo Technologies Private Limited 
(refer note (i) below)
India
12.75%
12.75% Equity method

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 420
Annual Report 
2023
397
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
23. Group information (Contd.. )
Name
Country of 
incorporation/  
Place of 
business
%  equity interest
Accounting 
method
As at  
March 
31, 2023
As at  
March 
31, 2022
First Games Technology Private Limited 
(formerly known as Paytm First Games 
Private Limited) ('FG') (refer note (iii) 
below)
India
55.00%
55.00% Equity 
method
First Games Singapore Pte. Ltd. (formerly 
known as Paytm First Games Singapore 
Pte. Ltd.) (wholly owned subsidiary of FG)
Singapore
55.00%
55.00% Equity 
method
Paytm Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd. 
(wholly owned subsidiary of FG)
China
55.00%
55.00% Equity 
method
C.	Joint Ventures of Paytm Entertainment Limited
D.	Entities having significant influence over the Group
 
SAIF III Mauritius Company Limited
 
Elevation Capital V Limited (Formerly known as SAIF Partners India V Limited)
 
SAIF Partners India IV Limited
 
Elevation Capital V FII Holdings Limited
 
ANTFIN (Netherlands) Holding B.V.
 
Alipay Labs (Singapore) Pte Limited
 
SVF India Holdings (Cayman) Limited 
 
SVF Panther (Cayman) Limited (till November 17, 2021) 
 
Alibaba.com Singapore E-Commerce Private Limited (till November 17, 2021)
 
Notes:	
 
(i) The entities have issued preference shares as well to the Holding Company.
 
(ii) Including 10% (March 31, 2022: 10%) held through One 97 Communications India Limited. As 
per Banking Regulation Act, 1949, voting rights in a banking Company are capped at 26% in 
case the investor holds more than 26% in the bank. 
 
(iii) The entity is into business of online gaming. It is a strategic investment which utilises group's 
knowledge and expertise in online space.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 421
Annual Report 
2023
398
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
(iv) Including 15.87% (March 31, 2022: 15.87%) held through Admirable Software Limited.
 
(v) Including 0.63% (March 31, 2022: 0.63%) held through Admirable Software Limited.
 
(vi) Inc.luding 43.75% (March 31, 2022: 43.75%) held through One 97 Communications India Limited.
 
(vii) Including 4.90% (March 31, 2022: 4.90%) held through Paytm Payments Bank Limited.
24. Investment in Associates and Joint ventures
A. The following table illustrates the summarised financial information of the Group’s investment in 
Associates.
	
As at March 31, 2023
23. Group information (Contd.. )
Particulars
Paytm 
Payments 
Bank 
Limited
Paytm 
General 
Insurance 
Limited
Paytm 
Life 
Insurance 
Limited
Infinity 
Transoft 
Solution 
Private 
Limited
Eatgood 
Technologies 
Private 
Limited
Paytm 
Financials 
Services 
Limited
Paytm 
Insuretech 
Private 
Limited
Total
Current assets
 78,319 
 24 
 * 
 42 
 451 
 881 
 46 
 79,763 
Non-current assets
 20,577 
 - 
 - 
 7 
 20 
 570 
 * 
 21,174 
Current liabilities
 (32,853)
 (48)
 * 
 (42)
 (401)
 (337)
 (1) (33,682)
Non-current liabilities
 (60,852)
 - 
 - 
 (109)
 (77)
 (689)
 -  (61,727)
Employee share based 
payment reserve 
 (1,157)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 * 
 - 
 (1,157)
Non-controlling 
interest
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 * 
 (54)
 - 
 (54)
Fair value impact on 
borrowings (net of 
deferred tax impact)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (123)
 - 
 (123)
Equity
 4,034 
 (24)
 * 
 (102)
 (7)
 248 
 45 
 4,194 
Proportion of the 
Group’s ownership
49.00%
49.00%
49.00%
26.57%
23.24%
48.78%
32.45%
Group's share in equity
 1,980 
 - 
 * 
 (28)
 - 
 121 
 15 
 2,089 
Investment recognised 
for ESOP expenses
 93 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 93 
Deemed Investment
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 56 
 - 
 56 
Goodwill/ (Capital 
Reserves)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 107 
 487 
 - 
 (15)
 579 
Provision for 
impairment of 
investment
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (300)
 - 
 - 
 (300)
Total Carrying amount 
of the investment#
 2,073 
 - 
 * 
 79 
 188 
 177 
 - 
 2,518 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 422
Annual Report 
2023
399
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
24. Investment in Associates and Joint ventures (Contd..)
	
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Particulars
Paytm 
Payments 
Bank 
Limited
Paytm 
General 
Insurance 
Limited
Paytm Life 
Insurance 
Limited
Infinity 
Transoft 
Solution 
Private 
Limited
Eatgood 
Technologies 
Private 
Limited
Paytm 
Financials 
Services 
Limited
Paytm 
Insuretech 
Private 
Limited
Total
Revenue
 23,565 
 - 
 - 
 84 
 498 
 30 
 5 24,182 
Profit / (loss) for the 
year
 57 
 (21)
 * 
 * 
 (22)
 (31)
 * 
 (17)
Other 
comprehensive 
(loss) / income for 
the year
 (8)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 271 
 - 
 263 
Total comprehensive 
income for the year
 49 
 (21)
 * 
 * 
 (22)
 240 
 * 
 246 
Group’s share of 
profit / (loss) for the 
year
 28 
 - 
 * 
 * 
 (5)
 (15)
 - 
 8 
Group's 
share in other 
comprehensive 
(loss) / income for 
the year
 (4)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 132 
 - 
 128 
Unrecognised share 
of losses
 - 
 (11)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 * 
 (11)
Contingent 
Liabilities, 
commitments and 
guarantees
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 423
Annual Report 
2023
400
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
24. Investment in Associates and Joint ventures (Contd..)
Particulars
Paytm 
Payments 
Bank 
Limited
Paytm 
General 
Insurance 
Limited
Paytm 
Life 
Insurance 
Limited
Infinity 
Transoft 
Solution 
Private 
Limited
Eatgood 
Technologies 
Private 
Limited
Paytm 
Financials 
Services 
Limited
Paytm 
Insuretech 
Private 
Limited
Total
Current assets
 75,227 
 1 
 1 
 57 
 194 
 982 
 48 
 76,509 
Non-current assets
 18,838 
 - 
 - 
 7 
 28 
 167 
 2 
 19,041 
Current liabilities
 (47,695)
 (55)
 * 
 (62)
 (162)
 (848)
 (3)
(48,825)
Non-current 
liabilities
 (41,334)
 (2)
 - 
 (107)
 (39)
 (201)
 * 
(41,683)
Employee share 
based payment 
reserve 
 (1,054)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,054)
Investment 
recognised for 
ESOP expenses
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Non-controlling 
interest
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (52)
 - 
 (52)
Fair value impact 
on borrowings (net 
of deferred tax 
impact)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (38)
 - 
 (38)
Equity
 3,982 
 (57)
 1 
 (105)
 21 
 10 
 46 
 3,898 
Proportion of the 
Group’s ownership
49.00%
49.00%
49.00%
26.57%
23.24%
48.78%
32.45%
Group's share in 
equity
 1,956 
 - 
 * 
 (28)
 6 
 4 
 15 
 1,954 
Goodwill/ (Capital 
Reserves)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 107 
 487 
 - 
 (15)
 580 
Provision for 
impairment of 
investment
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (300)
 - 
 - 
 (300)
Total Carrying 
amount of the 
investment#
 1,956 
 - 
 * 
 79 
 193 
 4 
 - 
 2,233 
	
As at March 31, 2022

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 424
Annual Report 
2023
401
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Particulars
Paytm 
Payments 
Bank 
Limited
Paytm 
General 
Insurance 
Limited
Paytm Life 
Insurance 
Limited
Infinity 
Transoft 
Solution 
Private 
Limited
Eatgood 
Technologies 
Private 
Limited
Paytm 
Financials 
Services 
Limited
Paytm 
Insuretech 
Private 
Limited
Total
Revenue
 22,179 
 - 
 - 
 45 
 458 
 29 
 16 22,728 
Profit / (loss) for the 
year
 (103)
 (6)
 * 
 (28)
 (49)
 (30)
 (1)
 (218)
Other 
comprehensive 
(loss) / income for 
the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total comprehensive 
income for the year
 (103)
 (6)
 * 
 (28)
 (49)
 (30)
 (1)
 (218)
Group’s share of 
profit / (loss) for the 
year
 (50)
 - 
 * 
 (7)
 (12)
 (15)
 - 
 (85)
Group's 
share in other 
comprehensive 
(loss) / income for 
the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Unrecognised share 
of losses
 - 
 3 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 * 
 3 
Contingent 
Liabilities, 
commitments and 
guarantees
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
24. Investment in Associates and Joint ventures (Contd..)
	
For the year ended March 31, 2022
 
#The Group recognizes share of losses on associates to the extent of its interest, post which the 
Group discontinues recognizing its further losses.
 
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 425
Annual Report 
2023
402
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
B. The following table illustrates the summarised financial information of the Group’s investment in 
joint venture.
24. Investment in Associates and Joint ventures (Contd..)
Particulars
First Games Technology Private Limited 
(formerly known as Paytm First Games 
Private Limited) (consolidated)
As at March 31, 2023 As at March 31, 2022
Current assets
- Cash and cash equivalents
 34 
 394 
- Other assets
 1,263 
 528 
Total current assets
 1,297 
 922 
Total non-current assets
 637 
 720 
Current liabilities
- Financial liabilities (excluding trade payables)
 (77)
 (91)
- Other liabilities
 (918)
 (1,032)
Total current liabilities
 (995)
 (1,123)
Non-current liabilities
- Financial liabilities (excluding trade payables)
 (2,667)
 (2,212)
- Other liabilities
 (21)
 (10)
Total non-current liabilities
 (2,688)
 (2,222)
Fair value impact on borrowings (net of deferred 
tax impact)
 (452)
 (393)
Employee share based payment reserve 
 (528)
 (395)
Net assets
 (2,729)
 (2,490)
Proportion of the Group’s ownership
55.00%
55.00%
Carrying amount of the investment
 (1,501)
 (1,369)
Investment recognised for ESOP expenses
 291 
 158 
Deemed investment
 296 
 296 
Total Carrying amount of the investment #
 (914)
 (915)
Particulars
First Games Technology Private Limited 
(formerly known as Paytm First Games 
Private Limited) (consolidated)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Revenue
 4,874 
 3,895 
Interest Income
 84 
 64 
Depreciation and amortisation
 87 
 70 
Interest expense
 278 
 178 
Income tax expense
 (6)
 (119)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 426
Annual Report 
2023
403
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
24. Investment in Associates and Joint ventures (Contd..)
Particulars
First Games Technology Private Limited 
(formerly known as Paytm First Games 
Private Limited) (consolidated)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
(Loss) for the year
 (228)
 (1,743)
Other comprehensive income
 (12)
 (7)
Total comprehensive income for the year
 (240)
 (1,750)
Group’s share of profit / (loss) for the year #
 (132)
 (374)
Unrecognised losses of previous period 
recognised during the year #
 (1)
 - 
Unrecognised share of losses
 - 
 (589)
Contingent Liabilities, commitments and 
guarantees
 - 
 - 
 
# The net worth of First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known as Paytm First Games 
Private Limited), a joint venture of the Group, has been fully eroded with net current liabilities. 
The carrying value of the share of investment in the consolidated financial statements is reduced 
to 'Nil' as the group is not liable to contribute in excess of their contribution.
 
The management has concluded that the Group doesn’t control First Games Technology Private 
Limited (formerly known as Paytm First Games Private Limited) even if it holds more than half 
of the voting rights of the investee entity. As per management’s judgement and evaluation,  the 
Group doesn’t have unilateral ability to direct the relevant activities.  The Group and other investor 
has ability to jointly direct the relevant activities of the investee entity by virtue of shareholder’s 
agreement and hence considered to be a joint venture.
 
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
25. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP)
(A) One97 Employees Stock Option Scheme 2019 (ESOP 2019 Scheme)
 
The Holding Company introduced One97 Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019 for the benefit 
of employees as approved by the Board of Directors in the meeting held on September 4, 2019 
and by shareholders in the Annual General Meeting held on September 30, 2019 wherein the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee has been authorized to grant share-based stock options 
to eligible employees of the Holding Company, its subsidiaries and associates under the ESOP 
2019 Scheme. The maximum number of Employee Stock Options under ESOP 2019 Scheme shall 
not exceed 46,455,832* (Refer Note 1 & 2 below) equity shares. ESOPs are generally granted to 
high performing employees. These Stock Options will generally vest between a minimum of one 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 427
Annual Report 
2023
404
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
to a maximum of five years from the grant date subject to achievement of certain performance 
criteria e.g. impact made on overall business, track record of displaying Paytm values, etc. 
 
*After considering impact of share sub division
	
Significant changes/modifications in the ESOP 2019 Scheme during FY 2020-
21 & FY 2021-22
 
1) Pursuant to the approval of Shareholders of the Holding Company at the Annual General 
Meeting held on June 30, 2021, each equity share of the Holding Company having face value 
of INR 10 each was sub divided into ten equity shares of face value of INR 1 per share with 
effect from June 30, 2021. Accordingly, all outstanding Employee Stock Options and remaining 
Employee Stock Option Pool had also been sub divided in the similar proportion.
 
2) Shareholders of the Holding Company in the Extra Ordinary General Meeting held on September 
2, 2021 had approved increase in ESOP Pool by adding 37,000,000 options. Accordingly, total 
ESOP Pool for ESOP 2019 Scheme stands at 46,455,832. 
 
3) Post Initial Public Offering of the Company’s share, the scheme had been ratified on February 
19, 2022 by the shareholders through postal ballot to comply with SEBI (SBEB & SE) Regulations. 
Further, Scheme had also been extended to cover the employees of group companies.
(B) One97 Employees Stock Option Scheme 2008 (ESOP 2008 Scheme)
 
The Holding Company introduced One 97 Employee Stock Option 2008 Scheme for the benefit 
of employees as approved by the Board of Directors in the meeting held on September 8, 2008 
and by the members in the Extra Ordinary General Meeting held on October 22, 2008 wherein 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee has authorized to grant share-based stock options to 
eligible employees of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries under the ESOP 2008 Scheme. 
The maximum number of Employee Stock Options under ESOP 2008 Scheme shall not exceed 
14,638,448* equity shares. These instruments will generally vest between a minimum of one to 
a maximum of four years from the grant date.
 
*After considering impact of share sub division
(C) Details about employee stock options granted, outstanding and other 
information:
 
1) During the year ended March 31, 2023, the Company has granted 12,385,196 (March 31, 
2022- 27,428,285) Employee Stock Options under ESOP 2019 Scheme to Eligible Employees. 
 
 
The grant made during FY 2021-22 includes grant of 21,000,000 Employee Stock Options 
25. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 428
Annual Report 
2023
405
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
25. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
to Managing Director and CEO of the Holding Company which is subject to achievement of 
certain milestones and will vest equally in 4 tranches, having minimum vesting period of 24 
months, 36 months, 48 months and 60 months for each tranche respectively.
	
2) The total options outstanding as at March 31, 2023 under ESOP 2008 Scheme are 250,797 
and ESOP 2019 Scheme are 37,457,727 (March 31, 2022 under ESOP 2008 Scheme – 585,450 
and ESOP 2019 Scheme – 29,317,167). Scheme-wise options outstanding are as under:
	
	
ESOP 2008 Scheme
Grant Date
Number of Options 
outstanding*
Number of Options 
outstanding*
Exercise 
Price*
March  31, 2023
March  31, 2022
December 31, 2008
6,405
6,425
5
April 1, 2016
11,907
31,331
9
October 1, 2016
834
1,453
9
April 1, 2017
-
3,084
9
October 1, 2017
19,000
21,260
9
April 1, 2018
121,420
363,677
9
July 1, 2018
83,433
136,530
9
October 1, 2018
6,408
12,387
9
April 1, 2019
1,390
9,303
9
Total
250,797
585,450
 
	
	
ESOP 2019 Scheme
Grant Date
Number of Options 
outstanding*
Number of Options 
outstanding*
Exercise 
Price*
March  31, 2023
March  31, 2022
April 1, 2019
172,991
268,031
9
October 1, 2019
121,533
179,728
9
April 1, 2020
135,343
218,797
9
July 1, 2020
100,094
127,428
9
October 1, 2020
1,585,497
2,194,862
9
April 1, 2021
391,588
586,210
9
October 1, 2021
3,150,449
4,206,273
9
October 1, 2021
21,000,000
21,000,000
9
October 1, 2021
38,584
385,838
1900
October 8, 2021
150,000
150,000
9
April 1, 2022
2,309,166
-
9

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 429
Annual Report 
2023
406
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Grant Date
Number of Options 
outstanding*
Number of Options 
outstanding*
Exercise 
Price*
March  31, 2023
March  31, 2022
May 1, 2022
              3,298,184
-
9
August 1, 2022
1,057,294
-
9
November 1, 2022
3,226,112
-
9
January 31, 2023
720,892
-
9
Total
            37,457,727
29,317,167
 
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023*
Year ended
March 31, 2022*
No of 
Options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price
No of 
Options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price
ESOP 2008 Scheme
 
 
 
 
Outstanding at the beginning
585,450 
8.96 
5,362,100 
10.97 
Granted during the year
- 
- 
- 
- 
Exercised during the year
301,386
9.00 
4,343,960 
11.43 
Forfeited during the year
33,267 
9.00 
350,020 
8.99 
Cancelled during the year
- 
- 
82,670 
9.00 
Outstanding at the end of the year
250,797 
8.90 
585,450 
8.96 
Vested options outstanding at 
the end of the year (exercisable)
250,797 
8.90
434,923 
8.96
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023*
Year ended
March 31, 2022*
No of 
Options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price
No of 
Options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price
ESOP 2019 Scheme
 
 
 
 
Outstanding at the beginning
29,317,167 
33.89 
4,669,180 
9.00 
Granted during the year
12,385,196 
9.00 27,428,285 
35.60 
Exercised during the year
572,965 
9.00 
576,261 
9.00 
Forfeited during the year
3,651,172 
188.85 
2,150,327 
9.00 
25. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
 
 
*After considering impact of share sub division
	
3)	 Movement during the year ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022:
 
 
The following table provides details about the number and weighted average exercise prices 
(WAEP) of, and movements in, employee stock options during the year:

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 430
Annual Report 
2023
407
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
25. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023*
Year ended
March 31, 2022*
No of 
Options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price
No of 
Options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price
Cancelled during the year
20,499 
9.00 
53,710 
9.00 
Outstanding at the end of the year
37,457,727 
10.95 
29,317,167 
33.89 
Vested options outstanding at the 
end of the year (exercisable)
1,013,089
81.02 
291,732
9.00 
Particulars
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
ESOP 2019 
Plan
ESOP 2008 
Plan
ESOP 2019 
Plan
ESOP 2008 
Plan
Weighted Avg. remaining life for 
the options outstanding at the 
end of the year (in years)
2.37
0.08
3.14
0.16
Particulars
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
ESOP 2019 
Plan
ESOP 2008 
Plan
ESOP 2019 
Plan
ESOP 2008 
Plan
Weighted Avg. share price of 
options exercised on the date of 
exercise (INR per share)
586.54
602.94
1,411.82
1,646.04
 
 
*After considering impact of share sub division
	
4)	 Details of Weighted average share price of options exercised on the date of exercise 
are as follows:
	
5)	 Details of Weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding 
are as follows:
 
 
The Holding Company has granted ESOPs to the employees of joint ventures and associates. 
During FY 2022-23, the Holding Company has recognized an amount of INR 226 (March 31, 
2022: INR 78) as investment in respective joint ventures and associates.
 
 
During FY 2022-23, the Holding Company has entered into recharge agreement with its 
associate entity effective December 1, 2022 for the share based payment arrangements. The 
amount recharged by the Holding Company during the financial year is INR 95 (March 31, 
2022: INR Nil).

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 431
Annual Report 
2023
408
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
 
During FY 2022-23, the Holding Company has cancelled 20,499 outstanding unvested 
employee stock options. This cancellation of unvested employee stock options resulted into 
an accelerated share based payment expense of INR 12 in the Consolidated Statement of 
Profit and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2023.
 
 
During FY 2021-22, the Holding Company had cancelled 67,550* outstanding unvested employee 
stock options and 68,830* outstanding vested employee stock options. This cancellation of 
unvested employee stock options resulted into an accelerated share based payment expense 
of INR 39 in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2022.
 
 
*After considering impact of share sub division
 
 
Details of stock options granted under the One 97 ESOP 2019 Scheme during the year ended on 
March 31, 2023 (computed using Discounted Cash Flow, OPM & Black-Scholes model) are as under:
25. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
Particulars
Grant Date
April 
1, 2022
May 
1, 2022
August 
1, 2022
November 
1, 2022
January 
31, 2023
Share Price (INR per share)
           571 
582
744 
643 
531 
Fair Value of Options Granted 
(INR per option)
564
574
737
636
524
Weighted Avg. Exercise Price 
(INR per share)
9
9
9
9
9
Vesting Period (in years)
5
5
5
5
5
Dividend Yield (%)
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Expected Life (in years)
1.04 - 5.04 1.04 - 5.04 1.04 - 5.04 1.04 - 5.04 1.04 - 5.04
Risk free interest rate (%)
4.60 - 6.40 4.90 - 6.90 6.30 - 7.10 7.00 - 7.50 7.05 - 7.37
Annualized Volatility (%)
46.80 – 
56.00
47.40 - 
56.20
48.40 - 
54.10
48.80 - 
56.80
48.70 - 
54.90
 
 
Details of stock options granted under the One 97 ESOP 2019 Scheme during the year ended 
on March 31, 2022 (computed using Discounted Cash Flow, OPM & Black-Scholes model) are 
as under:
Particulars
Grant Date
April 
1, 2021*
October 
1, 2021
October 
1, 2021
October 
1, 2021**
October 
8, 2021
October 
8, 2021
Share Price (INR per share)
1,657 
1,891 
1,891 
1,891 
1,891 
1,891 
Fair Value of Options Granted 
(INR per option)
1,651
1,883
1,027
1,884
1,883
1,882
Weighted Avg. Exercise Price 
(INR per share)
9
9
1900
9
9
9

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 432
Annual Report 
2023
409
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
25. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
Particulars
Grant Date
April 
1, 2021*
October 
1, 2021
October 
1, 2021
October 
1, 2021**
October 
8, 2021
October 
8, 2021
Vesting Period (in years)
5
5
5
5
5
1
Dividend Yield (%)
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Expected Life (in years)
3.50 - 
7.50
1.04 - 
5.04
3.50 - 
7.50
2.88 - 
5.04
1.04 - 
5.04
1.04
Risk free interest rate (%)
5.30 - 
6.40
4.00 - 
5.90
5.30 - 
6.40
4.90 - 
5.90
4.00 - 
6.00
4.00 
Annualized Volatility (%)
45.00 - 
55.30
40.30 - 
51.60
43.20 - 
56.30
44.10 - 
56.20
40.20 - 
51.60
40.20 
 
 
*After considering impact of share sub division
 
 
** Grant of options to Managing Director & CEO
 
 
Notes:
 
 
1. Weighted average share price is based on the value of Equity Shares arrived at by using 
Discounted Cash Flow Method, OPM Method or Backsolve method and share prices based 
on secondary transactions, where available.
 
 
2. Dividend yield is considered zero, as no dividend payout is expected in the foreseeable future.
 
 
3. Risk free return is based on the yield to maturity of Indian treasury securities, with a 
maturity corresponding to the expected term of ESOP.
 
 
4. Annualized volatility is based on the median weekly volatility of selected comparable 
companies for a time period commensurate with the expected term.
 
 
The expense recognised for employee services received during the year is shown in the 
following table:
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Expense arising from equity-settled share-based 
payment transactions of Holding Company
14,553
8,094
Expense arising from equity-settled share-based 
payment transactions (Urja Money Private Limited)
 -
(1)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 433
Annual Report 
2023
410
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
	
	
Notes – 
 
 
1. The ESOP Plans of Urja Money Private Limited, Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited 
and Little Internet Private Limited are not material to the group and hence no further 
information is disclosed.
 
 
2. During FY 2021-22, Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited and Urja Money Private 
Limited had terminated their Employee Stock Option Plans.
26. Related party transactions
A.	Entities over which Group exercise significant influence
25. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Other Adjustments (Impact on account of foreign 
currency translation)
5
-
Total expense arising from share-based payment 
transactions
14,558
8,093
Name
Country of 
incorporation
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
India
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited 
(Formerly known as QoRQL Private Limited)
India
Foster Payment Networks Private Limited (w.e.f March 26, 2021) 
(subsidiary of PFSL)
India
Paytm General Insurance Limited
India
Paytm Life Insurance Limited
India
Paytm Financials Services Limited (PFSL)
India
Admirable Software Limited (w.e.f. August 17, 2021) (subsidiary of PFSL)
India
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited 
India
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited 
India
Socomo Technologies Private Limited
India
B.	Key Management Personnel
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma
Chairman, Managing Director and CEO
Mr. Madhur Deora
Group Chief Financial Officer (w.e.f. October 9, 2020 and till 
December 31, 2021), Chief Financial Officer (w.e.f. January 1, 
2022) and Whole-time Director (Executive Director, President & 
Group Chief Financial Officer) (w.e.f. May 20, 2022)
Mr. Vikas Garg
Chief Financial Officer (till December 31, 2021)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 434
Annual Report 
2023
411
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
26. Related party transactions (Contd..)
Name
Country of 
incorporation
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known as Paytm First 
Games Private Limited)*
India
First Games Singapore Pte. Ltd. (formerly known as Paytm First Games 
Singapore Pte. Ltd.) (wholly owned subsidiary of First Games Technology 
Private Limited (formerly known as Paytm First Games Private Limited))
Singapore
Paytm Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd. (wholly owned subsidiary of First 
Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known as Paytm First Games 
Private Limited))
China
C.	Joint Venture of Paytm Entertainment Limited (Wholly owned Subsidiary of 
One 97 Communications Limited)
 
* The entity is into business of online gaming. It is a strategic investment which utilises group's 
knowledge and expertise in online space.
D.	Entities having significant influence over the Group
 
SAIF III Mauritius Company Limited
 
Elevation Capital V Limited (Formerly known as SAIF Partners India V Limited)
 
SAIF Partners India IV Limited
 
Elevation Capital V FII Holdings Limited
 
ANTFIN (Netherlands) Holding B.V.
 
Alipay Labs (Singapore) Pte Limited
 
SVF India Holdings (Cayman) Limited 
 
SVF Panther (Cayman) Limited (till November 17, 2021) 
 
Alibaba.com Singapore E-Commerce Private Limited (till November 17, 2021) 
E.	 Relative of Key Management Personnel
 
Mr. Ajay Shekhar Sharma 
Brother of Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 435
Annual Report 
2023
412
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
	
Details of transactions with related parties during the year ended March 31, 
2023 and March 31, 2022:-	
26. Related party transactions (Contd..)
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Rendering of services to related parties
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 8,590 
 10,107 
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 128 
 283 
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited
 9 
 3 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 4 
 * 
Socomo Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
 8,731 
 10,394 
Reimbursement of expenses incurred on behalf of 
related parties
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 152 
 751 
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 138 
 156 
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 * 
 * 
Foster Payment Networks Private Limited
 1 
 - 
Paytm Life Insurance Limited
 * 
 - 
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited
 * 
 - 
Admirable Software Limited
 * 
 - 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 * 
 - 
 291 
 907 
Expenses reimbursed to related party
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 - 
 2 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 - 
 2 
Admirable Software Limited
 - 
 * 
 - 
 4 
Interest income earned from related parties
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 - 
 2 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 - 
 21 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 1 
 - 
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 129 
 89 
 130 
 112 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 436
Annual Report 
2023
413
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
26. Related party transactions (Contd..)
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Interest income earned on Optionally Convertible 
Debentures ("OCD")  from related parties
Admirable Software Limited
 24 
 11 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 20 
 - 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 6 
 2 
 50 
 13 
Purchase of property, plant & equipment from related party
Alibaba.com Singapore E-Commerce Private Limited
 - 
 124 
 - 
 124 
Sale of property, plant & equipment to related parties
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 13 
 * 
 13 
 * 
Services received from related parties
	
-	 Payment processing charges
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 9,951 
 12,888 
 9,951 
 12,888 
	
-	 General expenses**
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 142 
 198 
Alipay Labs (Singapore) Pte Limited (Refer note (i) below)
 1,666 
 1,459 
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 4 
 3 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 - 
 9 
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited
 3 
 16 
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 2 
 21 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 3 
 - 
Admirable Software Limited
 2 
 - 
 1,822 
 1,707 
(i) includes INR 1,660 (March 31, 2022: INR 1,451) pertaining 
to Software, cloud and data centre expenses.
Inter corporate loan given
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 - 
 1,613 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 10 
 - 
 10 
 1,613 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 437
Annual Report 
2023
414
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Repayment of Inter Corporate Loan
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 471 
 - 
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 - 
 841 
 471 
 841 
Investment in Optionally Convertible Debentures
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 30 
 30 
Admirable Software Limited
 - 
 231 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 220 
 - 
 250 
 261 
Stock Options granted to employees of joint ventures 
and associates
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 133 
 78 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 188 
 - 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 * 
 - 
 321 
 78 
Recharge of ESOP cost to associate
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 95 
 - 
 95 
 - 
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Other financial assets (Other receivable for expenditure 
incurred)
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 164 
 223 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 30 
 138 
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited
 - 
 * 
Admirable Software Limited
 * 
 - 
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 45 
 12 
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited
 * 
 * 
 239 
 373 
26. Related party transactions (Contd..)
 
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
 
** Includes other expenses and Software, cloud and data centre expenses
	
Details of balances outstanding with related parties as at March 31, 2023 
and March 31, 2022:-

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 438
Annual Report 
2023
415
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
26. Related party transactions (Contd..)
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Other current assets
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 614 
 1,206 
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 - 
 31 
 614 
 1,237 
Inter corporate loan receivable (including accrued interest)
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 - 
 471 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 11 
 - 
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)#
 1,796 
 1,679 
 1,807 
 2,150 
Investments Optionally Convertible Debentures 
(including accrued interest)
Admirable Software Limited
 263 
 241 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 67 
 32 
Paytm Financial Services Limited##
 237 
 - 
 567 
 273 
Amount receivable from payment gateway
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 21,144 
 20,115 
 21,144 
 20,115 
Trade receivables
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 688 
 1,297 
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 14 
 147 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 - 
 702 
 1,444 
Other financial assets
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 32 
 38 
 32 
 38 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 439
Annual Report 
2023
416
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Trade payables (including accrued expenses) 
Alipay Labs (Singapore) Pte Limited
 150 
 77 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 42 
 51 
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 * 
 3 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 * 
 2 
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited
 * 
 3 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 - 
 * 
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 24 
 22 
Admirable Software Limited
 * 
 * 
 216 
 158 
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Other financial liabilities
	
-	 Payable to merchants
Socomo Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 5,287 
 2,280 
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 55 
 48 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 8 
 * 
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited
 * 
 * 
 5,350 
 2,328 
	
-	 Others
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 1 
 37 
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 58 
 96 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 - 
 * 
Socomo Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
 59 
 133 
Contract Liabilities
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited
 1 
 1 
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 1 
 - 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
 2 
 1 
26. Related party transactions (Contd..)
 
# Excluding Fair Value impact amounting to INR 289 (March 31, 2022: 317)
 
## Excluding Fair Value impact amounting to INR 72 (March 31, 2022: Nil)
 
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 440
Annual Report 
2023
417
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
26. Related party transactions (Contd..)
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Other Current Liabilities
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known 
as Paytm First Games Private Limited)
 - 
 30 
 - 
 30 
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Short-term employee benefits 
(Salaries, bonus and incentives)
 84 
 103 
Post-employment benefits (Provident fund)
 * 
 * 
Employee share based payment
 11,243 
 5,670 
Total compensation
 11,327 
 5,773 
	
Remuneration to KMP & Relative of Key Management Personnel
 
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
	
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
 
(i) The services provided and received from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those 
that prevail in arm’s length transactions. Outstanding balances at the year end are unsecured and 
interest free (except for inter corporate loan receivable and optionally convertible debentures) 
and settlement generally occurs in cash. There have been no guarantees provided or received 
for any related party receivables or payables.
 
(ii) The remuneration to the key managerial personnel (‘KMP’) does not include the provisions 
made for gratuity, leave benefits and long term incentive plan as they are determined on an 
actuarial basis by the Group entities as a whole.
 
(iii) The Group has agreed to provide appropriate financial support only if and to the extent required 
by one of its joint venture.
 
(iv) Refer note 19 for details of remuneration to non-excecutive and independent directors and 
payment to a law firm in which one of the non-executive and independent director is interested

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 441
Annual Report 
2023
418
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
27. Gratuity
The Group provides for gratuity for employees in India as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. 
Employees who are in continuous service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The amount 
of gratuity payable on retirement/termination is the employees last drawn basic salary per month 
computed proportionately for 15 days salary multiplied for the number of years of service upto a limit 
of INR 20 Lakhs. The gratuity plan is a funded plan and the Holding company makes contributions 
to recognised fund/insurer in India. The Group does not fully fund the liability and maintains a target 
level of funding to be maintained over a period of time based on estimations of expected gratuity 
payments. Disclosures given below are as per actuarial valuation report of independent actuary.
The following tables summarize the components of net benefit expenses recognized in the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss and the funded status and amount recognized in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet.
Changes in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets as at March 31, 2023:
 Defined benefit 
obligation 
 Fair value of 
plan assets # 
Defined benefit 
liability (Net)
As at April 01, 2022
 542 
 (249)
 293 
Gratuity cost 
charged to 
Statement of Profit 
or Loss
Current Service cost
 195 
 - 
 195 
Net interest expense/ 
(income)
 39 
 - 
 39 
Return on plan assets 
(excluding amounts 
included in net interest 
expense)
 - 
 (18)
 (18)
Sub-total included in 
Statement of Profit or loss
 234 
 (18)
 216 
Remeasurement 
(gains)/
losses in Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Actuarial changes 
arising from changes in 
demographic assumptions
 * 
 - 
 * 
Actuarial changes arising 
from changes in financial 
assumptions
 2 
 - 
 2 
Experience adjustments
 36 
 3 
 39 
Sub-total included in OCI
 38 
 3 
 41 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 442
Annual Report 
2023
419
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 Defined benefit 
obligation 
 Fair value of 
plan assets # 
Defined benefit 
liability (Net)
Net liability acquired on 
transfer of employees
 3 
 - 
 3 
Benefits paid
 (95)
 - 
 (95)
Contributions by employer
 - 
 86 
 86 
As at March 31, 2023
 722 
 (178)
 544 
Current 
 17 
Non Current
 527 
27. Gratuity (Contd..)
Changes in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets as at March 31, 2022:
 Defined benefit 
obligation 
 Fair value of 
plan assets # 
Defined benefit 
liability (Net)
As at April 01, 2021
 413 
 (169)
 244 
Gratuity cost 
charged to 
Statement of Profit 
or Loss
Current Service cost
 129 
 - 
 129 
Net interest expense/ 
(income)
 28 
 - 
 28 
Return on plan assets 
(excluding amounts 
included in net interest 
expense)
 - 
 (11)
 (11)
Sub-total included in 
Statement of Profit or loss
 157 
 (11)
 146 
Remeasurement 
(gains)/
losses in Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Actuarial changes 
arising from changes in 
demographic assumptions
 - 
 - 
 - 
Actuarial changes arising 
from changes in financial 
assumptions
 (10)
 - 
 (10)
Experience adjustments
 29 
 2 
 31 
Sub-total included in OCI
 19 
 2 
 21 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 443
Annual Report 
2023
420
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 Defined benefit 
obligation 
 Fair value of 
plan assets # 
Defined benefit 
liability (Net)
Net liability acquired on 
transfer of employees
 17 
 - 
 17 
Benefits paid
 (64)
 49 
 (15)
Contributions by employer
 - 
 (120)
 (120)
As at March 31, 2022
 542 
 (249)
 293 
Current 
 8 
Non Current
 285 
27. Gratuity (Contd..)
# Fair value of the total plan assets are 100% in funds managed by Insurer.
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the group.
The net liability disclosed above relates to funded plans are as follows:
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Present value of the obligations at end
 722 
 542 
Fair value of plan assets
 (178)
 (249)
Deficit of funded plan/gratuity plan
 544 
 293 
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
%
%
Discount rate
 7.39-7.40 
 7.13 - 7.30 
Future salary increases
 8 -15 
 8 -12 
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Retirement Age  (Years)
60
60
Mortality  rates inclusive of provision for disability
100% of IALM 
(2012 - 14)
100% of IALM  
(2012 - 14)
Ages
Withdrawal Rate %
 
Up to 30 Years        
30
30
 
From 31 to 44 years        
30
30
 
Above 44 years       
30
30
The principal assumptions used in determining defined benefit obligations are shown below:
(i) Economic Assumptions
(ii) Demographic Assumptions

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 444
Annual Report 
2023
421
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
27. Gratuity (Contd..)
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period)
 132 
 102 
Between 1-2 years
 130 
 104 
Between 2 and 5 years
 245 
 188 
Beyond 5 years
 215 
 148 
Total expected payments
 722 
 542 
 
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption as at March 31, 2023 is as shown below:
 
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption as at March 31, 2022 is as shown below:
Assumptions
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2023
Discount rate
Future salary increases
Sensitivity Level
0.5% increase 0.5% decrease 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease
Impact on defined benefit 
obligation
 (26)
 27 
 26 
 (24)
Assumptions
March 31, 2022 
March 31, 2022 
Discount rate
Future salary increases
Sensitivity Level
0.5% increase 0.5% decrease 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease
Impact on defined benefit 
obligation
 (10)
 12 
 12 
 (10)
 
The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates 
the impact on defined benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions 
occurring at the end of the reporting period. The methods and types of assumptions used in 
preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the prior year. 
 
Expected contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the period ending March 31, 2024 
are INR 254 (March 31, 2023 - INR 162).
 
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 2.79 years (March 31, 2022- 
2.78 years).   
 
 
 
 
The average remaining working life of members of the defined benefit obligation as at March 31, 
2023 is 30.87 years (as at March 31, 2022- 29.91 years)
 
The expected maturity analysis of  gratuity is as follows:

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 445
Annual Report 
2023
422
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
	
Risk exposure
 
Through its defined benefit plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant 
of which are detailed below:
	
Asset volatility: The plan assets are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to bond 
yields. If plan assets underperform this yield, there will be a deficit of the plan asset investments 
in fixed income securities with high grades and in government securities. These are subject to 
interest rate risk and the fund manages interest rate risk to an acceptable level.
	
Changes in bond yields: The defined benefit obligation calculated uses a discount rate based 
on government bonds. If bond yields fall, the defined benefit obligation will tend to increase.
	
Inflation risks: The payments are not linked to inflation, so this is a less material risk.
	
Life expectancy: Obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in 
life expectancy and inflation will result in an increase in the plans' liabilities. This is particularly 
significant where inflationary conditions result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
	
Major categories of plans assets are as follows:
27. Gratuity (Contd..)
Particulars
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
 Amount 
 In % 
 Amount 
 In % 
Government securities
 64 
 36.00 
 101 
 40.42 
Non convertible debentures
 98 
 55.00 
 117 
 47.10 
Others
 16 
 9.00 
 31 
 12.48 
Total
 178 
 100.00 
 249 
 100.00 
28. Income Tax
The major components of income tax expense for the Year ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 
2022 are:
Consolidated Statement of profit and loss:
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Current income tax:
Current income tax charge
 351 
 151 
Deferred tax:
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
 (15)
 (38)
Income tax expense reported in the Statement of profit or loss
 336 
 113 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 446
Annual Report 
2023
423
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
28. Income Tax (Contd..)
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Accounting profit before income tax
 (17,429)
 (23,851)
At India’s statutory income tax rate of 25.17% 
(March 31, 2022: 25.17%)
 (4,387)
 (6,003)
Tax expense during the period for Paytm Associate Benefit 
Welfare Trust (formerly known as One 97 Employee Welfare 
Trust)
 - 
 3 
Share of results of associates
 31 
 115 
Tax in foreign jurisdiction
 55 
 (6)
Effect of tax free rates in foreign jurisdiction
 (1)
 (5)
Other non-deductible expenses
 151 
 143 
Losses on which deferred taxes not recognised*
 3,062 
 4,977 
Losses on which deferred taxes utilised
 (144)
 - 
Unabsorbed depreciation on which deferred taxes not 
recognised*
 521 
 476 
Other temporary differences on which deferred taxes utilised
 - 
 (36)
Other temporary differences on which deferred taxes not 
recognised*
 1,048 
 449 
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit and loss
 336 
 113 
Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India’s 
domestic tax rate for Year ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022:
Deferred tax relates to the following:
Consolidated 
Balance Sheet
Consolidated statement 
of profit and loss
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2021
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
 - 
 (2)
 2 
 (2)
Loss allowance on financial assets
 - 
 - 
 - 
 * 
Employee Benefits
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax assets
Unabsorbed depreciation
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Unrealised foreign exchange gain/loss
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Losses available for offsetting against 
future taxable income
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Net deferred tax liabilities
 - 
 (2)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 447
Annual Report 
2023
424
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Consolidated 
Balance Sheet
Consolidated statement 
of profit and loss
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2021
Deferred tax assets
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
 * 
 * 
 * 
 6 
Loss allowance on financial assets
 5 
 * 
 5 
 4 
Losses available for offsetting against 
future taxable income
 35 
 38 
 (4)
 (14)
Employee Benefits
 35 
 33 
 1 
 (33)
Preliminary Expense
 2 
 (1)
 3 
 1 
Others
 8 
 - 
 8 
 - 
Deferred tax liabilities
Unrealised foreign exchange gain/loss
 - 
 * 
 - 
 - 
Net deferred tax assets
 85 
 70 
Deferred tax expense/(income)
 15 
 (38)
Net deferred tax 
liabilities
Net deferred tax assets
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
Opening balance as of 1 April
 (2)
 (6)
 70 
 35 
Tax income/(expense) during the year 
recognised in profit or loss
 2 
 3 
 13 
 35 
Impact of FCTR
 - 
 1 
 2 
 - 
Closing balance as at 31 March
 - 
 (2)
 85 
 70 
28. Income Tax (Contd..)
Reconciliation of deferred tax liabilities (net)
* As at the  year ended on March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022, the Group is having net deferred 
tax assets comprising of deductible temporary differences, brought forward losses and unabsorbed 
depreciation under tax laws. However in the absence of reasonable certainty as to its realization of 
Deferred Tax Assets (DTA), DTA has not been created for certain entities.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 448
Annual Report 
2023
425
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
28. Income Tax (Contd..)
Deductible temporary differences for which no deferred tax asset is recognised 
in the Balance Sheet:
Deductible temporary differences for which no deferred tax asset is recognised 
in the Balance Sheet:
Particulars
Expiry Date 
(Year ended March 
31, 2023)
As of  
March 31, 2023
As of  
March 31, 2023 Tax 
impact @ 25.17%
Tax Losses
2024
 14,943 
 3,761 
2025
 7,545 
 1,899 
2026
 14,098 
 3,548 
2027
 38,927 
 9,797 
2028
 22,792 
 5,736 
2029
 14,174 
 3,567 
2030
 19,884 
 5,004 
2031
 12,119 
 3,050 
Total tax losses
 144,482 
 36,362 
Unabsorbed depreciation
No expiry period
 8,025 
 2,020 
Long term capital losses
No expiry period
 68 
 17 
Other temporary differences
 16,757 
 4,217 
Total
 169,332 
 42,616 
Particulars
Expiry Date 
(Year ended March 
31, 2022)
As of  
March 31, 2022
As of  
March 31, 2022 Tax 
impact @ 25.17%
Tax Losses
2023
 3,316 
 835 
2024
 14,943 
 3,761 
2025
 7,545 
 1,899 
2026
 14,098 
 3,548 
2027
 38,927 
 9,797 
2028
 22,792 
 5,736 
2029
 14,174 
 3,567 
2030
 19,884 
 5,004 
Total tax losses
 135,679 
 34,147 
Unabsorbed depreciation
No expiry period
 5,955 
 1,582 
Other temporary differences
 11,591 
 2,917 
Total
 153,225 
 38,646 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 449
Annual Report 
2023
426
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
29. Commitments and contingencies
a.	 Leases
	
Operating lease: Group as Lessee
 
The Group has taken certain office space on short term operating lease. Rental expense towards 
leases for short term period charged to Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss for the year 
ended March 31, 2023 amounts to INR 67 (March 31, 2022: INR 100).
 
The Group leases various offices under non-cancellable operating leases. The leases have varying 
terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. On renewal, the terms of the leases are renegotiated.
b.	 Capital commitments	
 
Estimated amount of contracts towards property, plant & equipment remaining to be executed 
on capital account and not provided for is INR 2,590 (Net of capital advance of INR 566) [March 
31 2022: INR 3,060 (Net of capital advance of INR 763)].
c.	 Contingent liabilities
i)
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts
 476 
 498 
Income tax related matters
 127 
 63 
Custom duty related matter
 36 
 - 
Total
 639 
 561 
 
ii) The Group will continue to assess the impact of further developments relating to retrospective 
application of Supreme Court judgement dated February 28, 2019 clarifying the definition 
of 'basic wages' under Employees' Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 1952 
and deal with it accordingly. In the assessment of the management, the aforesaid matter is 
not likely to have a significant impact and accordingly, no provision has been made in these 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
iii) The Holding Company has been made aware of certain matters/claims relating to infringement 
of trademarks and patents in relation to the business activities carried on by it. The Holding 
Company actively monitors such matters/claims along with appropriate legal/technology 
experts to assess their veracity and takes action as considered necessary. In the opinion 
of the management, no material liability is likely to arise on account of such matters/claims, 
based on assessments made to date.
 
 
Notes:	
 
 
1) It is not practicable for the Group to estimate the timing of cash outflows, if any.
 
 
2) The Group does not expect any reimbursements in respect of the above contingent liabilities.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 450
Annual Report 
2023
427
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
30. Buyback of shares
The Board of Directors of the Holding Company at its meeting held on December 13, 2022 had 
approved buy-back of equity shares amounting to INR 8,500 (Maximum buy-back size, excluding 
transaction costs and tax on buy-back) at a price not exceeding INR 810 per equity share (Maximum 
buy-back price). The buy-back was offered to the equity shareholders of the Company under the 
open market route through the stock exchanges.
The buyback of equity shares commenced on December 21, 2022 and was completed on February 13, 
2023. During this period, the Holding Company had bought back 15,566,746 Equity Shares at an average 
price of INR 545.93 per Equity Share aggregating to INR 8,498 (99.98% of the Maximum Buyback Size) 
and subsequently these shares have been extinguished.
Consequent to the said buy-back, the equity share capital has been reduced by INR 16 and an equivalent 
amount has been transferred from securities premium account to capital redemption reserve. Further INR 
10,545 has been debited to the securities premium account on account of premium on shares bought 
back, related transaction costs and related taxes.
31. Fair value
Fair value hierarchy
The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the group’s assets and liabilities:
Level 1 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset 
or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
Level 3 - Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (unobservable 
inputs).
The following table presents fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis as of March 31, 2023
As of 
March 31, 2023
Fair value measurement at end 
of the reporting year using
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Assets
Investments at fair value through OCI
 
Investment in equity shares
 11,722 
 - 
 - 
 11,722 
Investments at fair value through Profit and loss

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 451
Annual Report 
2023
428
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
As of 
March 31, 2023
Fair value measurement at end 
of the reporting year using
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
 
Investment in Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference Shares
 40 
 - 
 - 
 40 
 
Investment in optionally convertible 
debentures
 601 
 - 
 - 
 601 
 
Inter corporate loans
 1,507 
 - 
 - 
 1,507 
 
Investment in Mutual Funds
 711 
 711 
 - 
 - 
31. Fair value (Contd..)
The following table presents fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis as of March 31, 2022
As of 
March 31, 2022
Fair value measurement at end 
of the reporting year using
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Assets
Investments at fair value through OCI
 
Investments in Equity Shares
 9,749 
 - 
 - 
 9,749 
Investments at fair value through Profit and loss
 
Investment in Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference Shares
 40 
 - 
 - 
 40 
 
Investment in optionally convertible 
debentures
 273 
 - 
 - 
 273 
 
Inter corporate loans
 1,362 
 - 
 - 
 1,362 
The Group has assessed that fair value of all other financial assets and liabilities including cash and 
cash equivalents, bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, loans, 
other financial assets, trade payables, lease liabilities, borrowings and other financial liabilities, 
approximate their carrying amounts.
32. Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, including market risk, credit risk and 
liquidity risk. The Group continues to focus on a system-based approach to business risk management. 
The Group’s financial risk management process seeks to enable the early identification, evaluation and 
effective management of key risks facing the business. Backed by strong internal control systems, 
the current Risk Management Framework rests on policies and procedures issued by appropriate 
authorities; process of regular internal reviews/audits to set appropriate risk limits and controls; 
monitoring of such risks and compliance confirmation for the same.  

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 452
Annual Report 
2023
429
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
32. Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd..)
a.	 Market Risk
 
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate 
because of changes in market prices. Market prices comprise three types of risk: interest rate risk, 
foreign currency risk and price risk. The Group has in place appropriate risk management policies 
to limit the impact of these risks on its financial performance. The Group ensures optimization of 
cash through fund planning and robust cash management practices.
	
(i)	Interest Rate Risk
 
 
Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument 
will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. 
 
 
The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the 
Group’s borrowings with floating interest rates.
 
 
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest 
rates, being a 0.5% increase or decrease in interest rate, with all other variables held constant, 
of the Group’s loss before tax due to the impact on floating rate borrowings.
As at
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Effect on loss before tax:
Decrease by 50 bps
(*)
(*)
Increase by 50 bps
*
*
 
 
Other financial assets and liabilities of the Group are either non-interest bearing or fixed 
interest bearing instruments, the Group’s net exposure to interest risk on such instruments is 
negligible.
 
 
The above sensitivity analysis is based on a reasonably possible change in the under-lying 
interest rate of the Group’s borrowings while assuming all other variables to be constant.
 
 
Based on the movements in the interest rates historically and the prevailing market conditions 
as at the reporting date, the Group’s management has concluded that the above mentioned 
rates used for sensitivity are reasonable benchmarks.
 
 
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 453
Annual Report 
2023
430
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
	
(ii) Price risk
	
	
The Group invests its surplus funds in debt based mutual fund, fixed deposits, Commercial 
papers, Treasury bills and Government Securities. As on March 31, 2023, mutual fund investments 
were in debt based funds only.
 
 
Mutual fund investments are susceptible to market price risk, mainly arising from changes in 
the interest rates or market yields which may impact the return and value of such investments. 
 
 
Set out below is the impact of a 0.25% movement in the NAV of mutual funds and debt 
instruments on the Group’s loss before tax:
32. Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd..)
Change in NAV
Effect on loss before tax
March 31, 2023
0.25%
(2)
-0.25%
2
March 31, 2022
0.25%
Nil
-0.25%
Nil
 
 
The Group is also exposed to equity/ preference shares price risk arising from investments 
held by the Group and classified in the balance sheet either as fair value through OCI or at 
fair value through profit or loss (refer note 6(a) and 6(b)). To manage its price risk arising from 
investments in equity/preference shares, the Group diversifies its portfolio. Diversification of 
the portfolio is done in accordance with the limits set by the Group.
	
(iii) Foreign currency risk
 
 
The Indian Rupee is the Group’s most significant currency. As a consequence, the Group’s 
results are presented in Indian Rupee and exposures are managed against Indian Rupee 
accordingly. Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an 
exposure will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group’s exposure 
to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the Group’s operating 
activities and investing activities (when revenue, expense and Property, Plant and Equipment 
is denominated in a foreign currency).
 
 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities denominated in United 
States Dollar (USD) are as follows:
As at March 31, 2023 As at March 31, 2022
 Financial 
assets 
Financial 
liabilities
Financial 
assets
Financial 
liabilities
Amount in USD Millions
1 
1
2 
1
Total
1 
1
2 
1

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 454
Annual Report 
2023
431
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
32. Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd..)
Change in USD rate
Effect on loss before tax
March 31, 2023
10% strengthening of USD against INR
*
10% weakening of USD against INR
*
March 31, 2022
10% strengthening of USD against INR
(6)
10% weakening of USD against INR
5
 
 
The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity of profit or loss to a reasonably possible 
change in USD exchange rates, with all other variables held constant. The Group’s exposure 
to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material.
 
 
The above sensitivity analysis is based on a reasonably possible change in the under-lying 
foreign currency against the functional currency while assuming all other variables to be 
constant.
 
 
Based on the movements in the foreign exchange rates historically and the prevailing market 
conditions as at the reporting date, the Group’s management has concluded that the above 
mentioned rates used for sensitivity are reasonable benchmarks.
 
 
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
b.	 Credit Risk
 
Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument 
or contract, leading to a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating 
activities (primarily trade receivables) and from its investing activities, including deposits with 
banks. Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an 
ongoing basis. The Group applies expected credit loss (ECL) model on financial assets measured 
at amortised cost e.g., loans, debt securities, deposits, trade receivables and bank balance. Cash 
and cash equivalents are also subject to the impairment requirement of Ind AS 109, the identified 
impairment loss was immaterial.
 
All of the Group investments and loans at amortised cost are considered to have low credit risk, 
and the loss allowance recognised during the period was therefore limited to 12 months expected 
losses. Management considers instruments to be low credit risk when they have a low risk of 
default and the issuer has a strong capacity to meet its contractual cash flow obligations in the 
near term.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 455
Annual Report 
2023
432
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
	
(i)	Trade receivables
 
 
The Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-payment by customers. Customer 
credit risk is managed subject to the Group’s established policy, procedures and control 
relating to customer credit risk management. An impairment analysis is performed at each 
reporting date by grouping the receivables in homogeneous group. The calculation is based 
on lifetime expected credit losses.
 
 
Expected credit loss for trade receivable under simplified approach- period ended March 31, 2023
32. Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd..)
Ageing
Unbilled 
Dues
Not 
due
0-1 
year
1-2 
year
 2-3 
year >3 year
Credit 
impaired
Total
Gross carrying 
amount
 6,271 3,778  2,703 
 407 
 141 
 108 
 1,068 
 
14,476 
Expected loss rate
3%
3%
5%
63%
91%
89%
100%
Expected credit 
losses (Loss 
allowance provision)
157 
110 
 130 
 258 
 129 
 96 
 1,068  1,948 
Carrying amount 
(net of loss 
allowance)
 6,114 3,668 
2,573 
 149 
 12 
 12 
 - 
 
12,528 
Ageing in years
Unbilled 
Dues
Not 
due
0-1 
year
1-2 
year
2-3 
year >3 year
Credit 
impaired
Total
Gross carrying 
amount
3,415
1,794
  2,551
370
123
111
716
9,080
Expected loss rate
4%
7%
7%
67%
85%
88%
100%
Expected credit 
losses (Loss 
allowance provision)
147
125
178
247
105
98
716
1,616
Carrying amount 
(net of loss 
allowance)
3,268
1,669
2,373
123
18
13
-
7,464
 
 
Expected credit loss for trade receivable under simplified approach- year ended March 31, 2022

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 456
Annual Report 
2023
433
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
32. Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd..)
Reconciliation of loss allowance
Loss allowance measured 
at simplified approach
Loss allowance as on April 1, 2021
1,570
Creation during the year#
46
Loss Allowance as on March 31, 2022
1,616
Creation during the year#
332
Loss Allowance as on March 31, 2023
1,948
 
 
#The above includes foreign currency adjustments as applicable for each year.
 
 
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of trade 
receivables. The Group does not hold collateral as security.
	
(ii) Other investments (excluding loans to related parties)
 
 
All of the Group’s other investments (preference shares, government securities, commercial 
papers, treasury bills and security deposits) at amortised cost are considered to have low 
credit risk, and the loss allowance recognised during the period was therefore limited to 12 
months’ expected losses. Management consider ‘low credit risk’ for listed instruments to be 
an investment grade credit rating with at least one major rating agency. Other instruments 
are considered to have low credit risk when they have a low risk of default and the issuer has 
a strong capacity to meet its contractual cash flow obligations in the near term.
	
(iii) Loan to related parties
 
 
The group considers the probability of default upon initial recognition of loan and whether 
there has been a significant increase in credit risk on an ongoing basis throughout each 
reporting period. To assess whether there is a significant increase in credit risk, the group 
compares the risk of a default occurring on the loan as at the reporting date with the risk of 
default as at the date of initial recognition. It considers available reasonable and supportive 
forwarding-looking information.
	
(iv) Other financial assets
 
 
Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Group’s 
treasury department in accordance with the Group’s policy. Investment of surplus funds is 
made only with banks of high repute.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 457
Annual Report 
2023
434
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
 
 
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the balance sheet at March 
31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 is the carrying amounts as illustrated in Note 6 (c) and 6 (d).
32. Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd..)
Reconciliation of loss allowance
Loss allowance measured 
at 12 month expected loss
Loss allowance as on April 1, 2021
246
Creation during the year#
382
Loss Allowance as on March 31, 2022
628
Creation during the year#
462
Loss Allowance as on March 31, 2023
1,090
 
 
#The above total includes foreign currency adjustments as applicable for each year.
c.	 Liquidity Risk
 
The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through 
the use of bank overdrafts, working capital loans etc. Group monitor their risk of shortage of 
funds using cash flow forecasting models. These models consider the maturity of their financial 
investments, committed funding and projected cash flows from operations.
 
The Group’s objective is to provide financial resources to meet its business objectives in a timely, 
cost effective and reliable manner. A balance between continuity of funding and flexibility is 
maintained through the use of bank borrowings. The Group also monitors compliance with its 
debt covenants. The maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual 
undiscounted payments is given in the table below:
Particulars
0-180 days
181-365 
days
1-2 Year
More than 
2 year
Total
As at March 31, 2023
Borrowings
20
-
-
-
20
Lease liabilities
260
266
491
2,074
3,091
Trade payables
8,589
-
-
-
8,589
Other financial liabilities
27,586
-
-
-
27,586
Total
36,455
266
491
2,074
39,286
As at March 31, 2022
Borrowings
1
-
-
-
1
Lease liabilities
308
251
446
2,141
3,146
Trade payables
7,514
-
-
-
7,514
Other financial liabilities
18,005
-
-
-
18,005
Total
25,828
251
446
2,141
28,666

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 458
Annual Report 
2023
435
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
33. Capital Management
The Group’s objectives while managing capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern 
and to generate adequate returns for its shareholders and ensuring benefits for other stakeholders. The 
key objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a stable capital structure 
with the focus on total equity, uphold investor; creditor and customer confidence, and ensure future 
development of its business activities. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments 
to it, in light of changes in economic conditions or its business requirements.
The Group's capital management objective is to remain majorly a debt-free Group till the time it achieves 
break-even. In order to meet this objective, Group meets anticipated funding requirements for developing 
new businesses, expanding its geographical base, entering in to strategic mergers and acquisitions and 
other strategic investments, by issuance of equity capital together with cash generated from Group’s 
operating and investing activities. The Group utilizes certain working capital facilities in the form of short 
term bank overdraft to meet anticipated interim working capital requirements.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the year 
ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022.
34. Segment Reporting
The Group is engaged in different business units, including payment and financial services, commerce 
and cloud services and the Board of Directors (Chief Operating Decision Maker “CODM”) reviews 
the information at the revenue level and does not allocate operating costs and expenses, assets and 
liabilities across business units, as the CODM does not use such information to allocate resources or 
evaluate the performance of the business units. Allocation of resources and assessment of financial 
performance is done at the consolidated level. The way the CODM reviews the performance, 
management of the Company has concluded that it constitutes a single segment as per Ind AS 108 
‘Operating Segments’. Hence, no separate disclosure is required for segments.
The Group has revenues primarily from customers domiciled in India. Substantially all of the Group’s 
non-current operating assets are domiciled in India.
Information about major customers
Revenues of INR 8,590 are derived from one external customer (March 31, 2022: INR 10,107 from 
one external customer).

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 459
Annual Report 
2023
436
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
35. Additional information
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Name of the entity 
Net Assets, i.e., total 
assets minus total 
liabilities
Share in profit or (loss)
Share in Total Other 
Comprehensive 
Income/(Loss) for the 
year
Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income/ 
(Loss) for the year
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI
Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income
 Amount 
Parent
One 97 
Communications 
Limited
 94.56 %
1,22,867 
 104.46 %
(18,558)
(1.10)%
 (23)
 118.47 %  (18,581)
Adjustment due to 
consolidation
(10.75)%
(13,968)
(4.10)%
 729 
 52.50 %
 1,093 
(11.60)%
 1,819 
Subsidiaries
Indian
One 97 
Communications 
India Limited
 0.71 %
 922 
(0.15)%
 27 
 0.00 %
 * 
(0.17)%
 27 
Paytm 
Entertainment 
Limited
 1.77 %
 2,298 
(0.17)%
 31 
 0.00 %
 * 
(0.20)%
 31 
Paytm Money 
Limited
 0.73 %
 947 
(2.41)%
 428 
(0.10)%
 (2)
(2.72)%
 426 
Wasteland 
Entertainment 
Private Limited
 0.03 %
 42 
 1.08 %
 (192)
(0.14)%
 (3)
 1.24 %
 (195)
Urja Money Private 
Limited (Including 
step down 
subsidiary)
(0.05)%
 (60)
 0.04 %
 (8)
 0.00 %
 * 
 0.05 %
 (8)
Mobiquest Mobile 
Technologies 
Private Limited 
(Including step 
down subsidiary)
(0.01)%
 (19)
 0.46 %
 (81)
(0.10)%
 (2)
 0.53 %
 (83)
Little Internet 
Private Limited 
(Including step 
down subsidiary)
(0.21)%
 (271)
(0.34)%
 61 
 0.00 %
 * 
(0.39)%
 61 
Orbgen 
Technologies 
Private Limited
 0.09 %
 121 
 0.26 %
 (46)
(0.14)%
 (3)
 0.31 %
 (49)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 460
Annual Report 
2023
437
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Name of the entity 
Net Assets, i.e., total 
assets minus total 
liabilities
Share in profit or (loss)
Share in Total Other 
Comprehensive 
Income/(Loss) for the 
year
Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income/ 
(Loss) for the year
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI
Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income
 Amount 
Paytm Payments 
Services Limited 
(w.e.f October 10, 
2020)
 0.99 %
 1,287 
(0.30)%
 54 
(0.05)%
 (1)
(0.34)%
 53 
Paytm Insurance 
Broking private 
limited
 0.20 %
 264 
 0.53 %
 (93)
 0.00 %
 * 
 0.59 %
 (93)
Paytm Services 
Private Limited 
(Formerly known 
as Balance 
Technology Private 
Limited)
 0.05 %
 59 
 0.07 %
 (13)
(0.24)%
 (5)
 0.11 %
 (18)
Foreign
One97 
Communications 
Singapore Private 
Limited (Including 
step down 
subsidiary)
 10.14 %
 13,173 
(0.14)%
 25 
 43.32 %
 902 
(5.91)%
 927 
One97 
Communications 
FZ-LLC
 0.08 %
 103 
(0.02)%
 4 
 0.00 %
 - 
(0.02)%
 4 
One97 
Communications 
Nigeria Limited
(0.12)%
 (157)
 0.10 %
 (18)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.11 %
 (18)
One97 USA Inc.
 0.02 %
 32 
(0.10)%
 17 
 0.00 %
 - 
(0.11)%
 17 
Non controlling 
interests in 
subsidiaries
(0.17)%
 (227)
 0.04 %
 (6)
 0.00 %
 * 
 0.04 %
 (6)
Interest in 
Associate 
(Investments 
as per equity 
method)
Indian
Paytm Payments 
Bank Limited
 1.60 %
 2,073 
(0.16)%
 28 
(0.19)%
 (4)
(0.16)%
 24 
35. Additional information (Contd..)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 461
Annual Report 
2023
438
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
35. Additional information (Contd..)
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
Name of the entity 
Net Assets, i.e., total 
assets minus total 
liabilities
Share in profit or (loss)
Share in Total Other 
Comprehensive 
Income/(Loss) for the 
year
Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income/ 
(Loss) for the year
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI
Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income
 Amount 
Paytm General 
Insurance Limited
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
Paytm Life 
Insurance Limited
 0.00 %
 * 
 0.00 %
 * 
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 * 
Infinity Transoft 
Private Limited
 0.06 %
 79 
 0.00 %
 * 
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 * 
Eatgood 
Technologies 
Private Limited
 0.14 %
 188 
 0.03 %
 (5)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.03 %
 (5)
Paytm Financials 
Services Limited
 0.14 %
 177 
 0.08 %
 (15)
 6.24 %
 132 
(0.75)%
 117 
Paytm Insuretech 
Private Limited 
(Formerly known 
as QoRQL Private 
Limited)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
Interest in 
Joint Venture 
(Investments 
as per equity 
method)
First Games 
Technology Private 
Limited (formerly 
known as Paytm 
First Games 
Private Limited) 
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.75 %
 (133)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.85 %
 (133)
100.00%  1,29,929 
100.00%  (17,765)
100.00%
 2,082 
100.00% (15,683)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 462
Annual Report 
2023
439
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
35. Additional information (Contd..)
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Name of the entity 
Net Assets, i.e., total 
assets minus total 
liabilities
Share in profit or (loss)
Share in Total Other 
Comprehensive 
Income/(Loss) for the 
year
Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income/ 
(Loss) for the year
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI
Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income
 Amount 
Parent
One 97 
Communications 
Limited
 97.05 %
 1,37,125 
 97.02 %
(23,251)
(0.19)%
 (18)
 161.42 %
 
(23,269)
Adjustment due to 
consolidation
(9.34)% (13,204)
(2.17)%
 520 
 2.04 %
 195 
(4.96)%
 715 
Subsidiaries
Indian
One 97 
Communications 
India Limited
 0.61 %
 858 
(0.13)%
 32 
 0.00 %
 * 
(0.22)%
 32 
Paytm 
Entertainment 
Limited
 1.60 %
 2,267 
(0.11)%
 26 
 0.00 %
 * 
(0.18)%
 26 
Paytm Money 
Limited
 0.31 %
 443 
 0.45 %
 (107)
 0.00 %
 * 
 0.74 %
 (107)
Wasteland 
Entertainment 
Private Limited
 0.06 %
 88 
 1.09 %
 (261)
(0.00)%
 * 
 1.81 %
 (261)
Urja Money Private 
Limited (Including 
step down 
subsidiary)
(0.03)%
 (49)
 0.18 %
 (44)
(0.00)%
 * 
 0.31 %
 (44)
Mobiquest Mobile 
Technologies 
Private Limited 
(Including step 
down subsidiary)
 0.04 %
 52 
 0.10 %
 (25)
 0.01 %
 1 
 0.17 %
 (24)
Little Internet 
Private Limited 
(Including step 
down subsidiary)
(0.23)%
 (332)
 0.18 %
 (42)
 0.00 %
 * 
 0.29 %
 (42)
Orbgen 
Technologies 
Private Limited
 0.08 %
 116 
 0.08 %
 (20)
(0.03)%
 (3)
 0.16 %
 (23)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 463
Annual Report 
2023
440
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
35. Additional information (Contd..)
Name of the entity 
Net Assets, i.e., total 
assets minus total 
liabilities
Share in profit or (loss)
Share in Total Other 
Comprehensive 
Income/(Loss) for the 
year
Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income/ 
(Loss) for the year
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI
Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income
 Amount 
Paytm Payments 
Services Limited 
(w.e.f October 10, 
2020)
 0.39 %
 547 
 0.04 %
 (9)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.06 %
 (9)
Paytm Insurance 
Broking private 
limited
 0.23 %
 332 
 0.33 %
 (79)
(0.00)%
 * 
 0.55 %
 (79)
Paytm Services 
Private Limited 
(Formerly known 
as Balance 
Technology Private 
Limited)
 0.06 %
 78 
(0.22)%
 52 
(0.02)%
 (2)
(0.35)%
 50 
Foreign
One97 
Communications 
Singapore Private 
Limited (Including 
step down 
subsidiary)
 7.79 %
 11,001 
 1.10 %
 (264)
 98.19 %
 9,376 
(63.21)%
 9,112 
One97 
Communications 
FZ-LLC
 0.07 %
 92 
(0.03)%
 7 
 0.00 %
 - 
(0.05)%
 7 
One97 
Communications 
Nigeria Limited
(0.10)%
 (143)
 0.05 %
 (13)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.09 %
 (13)
One97 USA Inc.
 0.01 %
 13 
(0.03)%
 7 
 0.00 %
 - 
(0.05)%
 7 
Non controlling 
interests in 
subsidiaries
(0.16)%
 (221)
 0.15 %
 (35)
 0.00 %
 * 
 0.24 %
 (35)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 464
Annual Report 
2023
441
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Name of the entity 
Net Assets, i.e., total 
assets minus total 
liabilities
Share in profit or (loss)
Share in Total Other 
Comprehensive 
Income/(Loss) for the 
year
Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income/ 
(Loss) for the year
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI
Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income
 Amount 
Interest in 
Associate 
(Investments 
as per equity 
method)
Indian
Paytm Payments 
Bank Limited
 1.38 %
 1,956 
 0.21 %
 (50)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.35 %
 (50)
Paytm General 
Insurance Limited
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
Paytm Life 
Insurance Limited
 0.00 %
 * 
 0.00 %
 * 
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
Infinity Transoft 
Private Limited
 0.06 %
 79 
 0.03 %
 (7)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.05 %
 (7)
Eatgood 
Technologies 
Private Limited
 0.14 %
 193 
 0.05 %
 (12)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.08 %
 (12)
Paytm Financials 
Services Limited
 0.00 %
 4 
 0.06 %
 (15)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.10 %
 (15)
Paytm Insuretech 
Private Limited 
(Formerly known 
as QoRQL Private 
Limited)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
Interest in 
Joint Venture 
(Investments 
as per equity 
method)
First Games 
Technology Private 
Limited (formerly 
known as Paytm 
First Games 
Private Limited) 
 0.00 %
 - 
 1.56 %
 (374)
 0.00 %
 - 
 2.59 %
 (374)
100.00% 1,41,295 
100.00% (23,964)
100.00%
 9,549 
100.00% (14,415)
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
35. Additional information (Contd..)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 465
Annual Report 
2023
442
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
36. Impairment review of goodwill arising on Consolidation
The Group monitors the business of the respective acquisitions independently and thus considers 
each acquisition as a separate Cash Generating Unit (‘CGU’).
Carrying amount of Goodwill (net of impairment):-
Cash Generating Unit
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
140
140
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
202
202
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
68
68
Urja Money Private Limited
33
33
Total 
443
443
The Group reviews the goodwill for any impairment at the CGU level. The recoverable amount of the 
above CGUs are based on value-in-use, which is determined based on five year business plans that 
have been approved by the management for internal purposes. The said planning horizon of five years 
reflects the assumptions for short to medium-term market developments. The cash flows beyond 
the planning period are extrapolated using appropriate terminal growth rates. The terminal growth 
rates used do not exceed the long term average growth rates of the respective industry and country 
in which the entity operates and are consistent with the internal/external sources of information.
The key assumptions used in value-in-use calculations are as follows: 
• Earnings before interest and taxes margins (‘EBIT’) 
• Discount rate
• Growth rates
EBIT margins: The margins have been estimated based on past experience after considering incremental 
revenue arising out of increase in payment business from the existing and new customers. Margins 
will be positively impacted from the efficiencies and initiatives driven by the Group; whereas, factors 
like increased cost of operations may impact the margins negatively. 
Discount rate: Discount rate reflects the current market assessment of the risks specific to the CGU 
estimated based on the weighted average cost of capital. Pre-tax discount rate used ranged from 
20% to 25% (March 31, 2022: 20% to 25%) which in the opinion of management are consistent with 
companies in similar business.
Growth rates: The terminal growth rates used are in the opinion of management in line with the long-
term average growth rates of the respective industry in which the entity operates and are consistent 
with the internal/external sources of information. The terminal growth rates used in extrapolating 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 466
Annual Report 
2023
443
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
-
24
Total 
-
24
cash flows beyond the planning period, range from 1.5 to 2.5 times (March 31, 2022: 1.5 to 2.5 times) 
of revenue for the terminal year.
Goodwill Impairment 
During the year ended March 31, 2023, no additional impairment is required based on above-
mentioned analysis.
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the goodwill arising on account of consolidation has been 
impaired based on above mentioned analysis. Below is the table showing the value of goodwill 
impaired for the subsidiaries.
Impairment of Goodwill
36. Impairment review of goodwill arising on Consolidation (Contd..)
37. Transactions with Non-controlling Interests
During the current year and previous year, there are no transactions with Non-controlling Interests.
Non Controlling Interests (NCI)	
Set out below is summarised financial information for each subsidiary that has non-controlling 
interests that are material to the Group. The amounts disclosed for each subsidiary are before inter-
company eliminations.
Summarised Balance Sheet
Little Internet 
Private Limited
Nearbuy Internet 
Private Limited
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
Current assets
 2 
 6 
 61 
  52 
Current liabilities
 34 
 44 
 42 
 115 
Net current assets
 (32)
 (38)
 19 
 (62)
Non-Current assets
 * 
 1 
 3 
 9 
Non-Current liabilities
 113 
 105 
 120 
 108 
Net non-current assets
 (112)
 (104)
 (117)
 (100)
Net assets
 (144)
 (142)
 (98)
 (161)
Accumulated NCI
 (158)
 (180)
 # 
 # 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 467
Annual Report 
2023
444
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Summarised statement of profit and loss
Little Internet 
Private Limited
Nearbuy Internet 
Private Limited
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
Revenue
 - 
 - 
 79 
 86 
Loss for the year
 (2)
 (14)
 63 
 (35)
Other comprehensive income / (loss)
 * 
 * 
 * 
 * 
Total comprehensive income
 (2)
 (14)
 63 
 (35)
Loss allocated to NCI#
 22 
 (16)
 # 
 # 
Summarised cash flows
Little Internet 
Private Limited
Nearbuy Internet 
Private Limited
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 2022
Net cash inflow/ (used) in operating activities
 (1)
 * 
 2 
 (144)
Net cash inflow/ (used) in investing activities
 * 
 (7)
 - 
 17 
Net cash inflow/ (used) from financing 
activities
 (1)
 (1)
 (1)
 136 
Net increase/ (decrease) in cash and cash 
equivalents
 (2)
 (8)
 1 
 9 
37. Transactions with Non-controlling Interests (Contd..)
# Accumulated NCI and Loss allocated to NCI of Little Internet Private Limited includes accumulated 
NCI and loss allocated for Nearbuy Internet Private Limited.
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group.
38. Details of Transactions and outstanding balances of Paytm 
E-Commerce Private Limited (PEPL) 
Details of transactions entered during the year
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Rendering of services to PEPL
1,055
1,281
Reimbursement of expenses incurred on behalf of PEPL
28
122
Services received from PEPL
200
189

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 468
Annual Report 
2023
445
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
38. Details of Transactions and outstanding balances of Paytm 
E-Commerce Private Limited (PEPL) (Contd..)
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Other Financial Assets
5
13
Trade payables
45
79
Other Financial Liability
25
126
Contract liabilities
3,384
4,176
Trade Receivable
16
30
Details of outstanding balances
39. Overdue outstanding foreign currency receivables
As of March 31, 2023, the Holding Company has certain foreign currency receivable balances 
aggregating to INR 374 outstanding beyond the stipulated time period permitted under the RBI 
Master Direction on Export of Goods and Services vide FED Master Direction No. 16/2015-16 dated 
January 1, 2016 (as amended), issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).The Holding Company had 
applied to the Authorised Dealer Bank for extension of time for realisation of these amounts and the 
approval has been received. Further, two subsidiaries namely Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private 
Limited and Orbgen Technologies Private Limited, had applied to AD Bank/ RBI for extension and 
write-off of receivables aggregating to INR 6. Based on response from AD Bank/RBI, these companies 
have obtained the STPI registration and are in the process of filing their respective applications for 
condonation of delays in respect of reporting of export of software and submission of SOFTEX forms 
with the STPI authorities.
40. Transfer pricing
The Group has established a comprehensive system of maintenance of information and documents 
as required by the transfer pricing legislation under sections 92-92F of the Income Tax Act, 1961/
applicable regulations. For this purpose, the Group has appointed independent consultants for 
conducting Transfer Pricing Study. Management is of the opinion that its international transactions 
with associated enterprises have been undertaken at arms' length basis at duly negotiated prices 
on usual commercial terms. The transfer pricing study of the Holding Company for the year ended 
March 31, 2022 has been completed which did not result in any material adjustment.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 469
Annual Report 
2023
446
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
41. Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR) expenditure
The Holding Company has not earned net profit in three immediately preceding financial years, 
therefore, there was no amount as per section 135 of the Act which was required to be spent on CSR 
activities in the current financial period by the Holding Company. However, the Holding Company 
has spent an amount of INR 26 (March 31, 2022: INR 14) as CSR expenditure.
In respect of two subsidiaries on which CSR is applicable, refer below for disclosures:
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Amount required to be spent during the year
6
-
Amount of expenditure incurred
5
-
Amount of shortfall for the year
1
-
Amount of cummulative shortfall at the end of the year
1
-
One of the subsidiary Company is yet to incur the expenditure for the year. The company has time 
to spend the amount by September 30, 2023.
42. Notes given by the subsidiary and associate in their respective 
Financial Statements/Information:
a) Paytm Payments Services Limited (Subsidiary):
 
"The Company filed an application for authorization to set up Payment System (‘PA application’) 
under sub-section (1) of Section 5 of the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007 with the 
Department of Payment and Settlement Systems, Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) on January 8, 
2021, in response to which, the Company received a letter from the RBI on November 25, 2022. 
As per the letter, the Company was required to obtain necessary approval for past downward 
investment from its parent company, One 97 Communications Limited ("OCL"), in compliance 
with Foreign Direct Investment (“FDI”) Guidelines and resubmit the PA application within 120 
calendar days. Pursuant to the aforesaid, the Company had applied to the requisite government 
authorities seeking approval for the past downward investment made by OCL on December 14, 
2022, which is still under process.
 
Further, the Company has received an extension of time from RBI, vide its letter dated March 23, 
2023, for resubmission of the application. As per RBI's letter, the Company can continue with the 
online payment aggregation business, while it awaits approval from Government of India (‘GoI’) for 
past downward investment from OCL into the Company and needs to resubmit the PA application 
within 15 days of receipt of the approval from GoI and to inform RBI immediately, if any adverse 
decision is taken by the GoI.
 
The RBI has directed the Company not to onboard new merchants. Management has assessed 
that this does not have a material impact on our business and revenues since the communication 
from RBI is applicable only to onboarding of new merchants."

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 470
Annual Report 
2023
447
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
b) Paytm Payments Bank Limited (Associate):
 
"During FY2022, pursuant to a supervisory process, RBI directed the Bank to stop the onboarding 
of new customer’s w.e.f. March 11, 2022. During FY2023, RBI appointed an external auditor for 
conducting a comprehensive systems audit of the Bank. On October 21, 2022 the Bank received 
the final report thereof from RBI outlining the need for continued strengthening of IT outsourcing 
processes and operational risk management, including KYC/AML at the Bank. Pursuant to a 
supervisory engagement thereafter, RBI recommended remediating action steps (including further 
steps to be taken by the Bank) in a time bound manner. The Bank has completed the compliance 
to these instructions of RBI and the same is currently being validated by RBI."
43. Utilisation of IPO proceeds
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Holding Company had completed its initial public offer 
(IPO) of 85,116,278 equity shares of face value of INR 1 each at an issue price of INR 2,150 per 
share, comprising fresh issue of 38,604,651 shares and offer for sale of 46,511,627 shares by selling 
shareholders. Pursuant to the IPO, the equity shares of the Holding Company were listed on National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) and BSE Limited (BSE) on November 18, 2021.
The Holding Company has incurred INR 4,115 as IPO related expenses and allocated such expenses 
between the Company INR 1,866 and selling shareholders INR 2,249. Such amounts were allocated 
based on agreement between the Holding Company and selling shareholders and in proportion to 
the total proceeds of the IPO. Out of Holding Company’s share of expenses of INR 1,866, INR 1,401 
has been adjusted to securities premium.
Details of utilisation of net IPO Proceeds of INR 81,134, are as follows:
42. Notes given by the subsidiary and associate in their respective 
Financial Statements/Information: (Contd..)
S. 
No Objects of the issue
Amount as 
proposed 
in Offer 
Document
Amount 
Utilised up to 
March 
31, 2023
Amount 
Un-utilised 
as on March 
31, 2023
1
Growing and strengthening our Paytm ecosystem, 
including through acquisition and retention of 
consumers and merchants and providing them with 
greater access to technology and financial services
43,000
10,722
i) Marketing and promotional expenses
   5,985
ii) Expanding our merchant base and deepening 
our partnership with our merchants
12,967
iii) Strengthening and expanding our technology 
powered payments platform
13,326
Total (A)
43,000
32,278
10,722

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 471
Annual Report 
2023
448
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
S. 
No Objects of the issue
Amount as 
proposed 
in Offer 
Document
Amount 
Utilised up to 
March 
31, 2023
Amount 
Un-utilised 
as on March 
31, 2023
2
Investing in new business initiatives, acquisitions 
and strategic partnerships
20,000
20,000
i) Investments in new business initiatives
 
a) Payment Services
-
 
b) Commerce and cloud services
-
 
c) Financial Services
-
ii) Investments in acquisitions and strategic 
partnerships
-
Total (B)
20,000
-
20,000
3
General corporate purposes
18,134
7,849
10,285
Total (C)
18,134
7,849
10,285
Total (A+B+C)
81,134
40,127
41,007
43. Utilisation of IPO proceeds (Contd..)
Net IPO proceeds which were un-utilised as at March 31, 2023 were temporarily invested in deposits 
with scheduled commercial banks and in monitoring agency account.
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III
(i) The Group has granted loans and made investment in some of its subsidiary companies, associate 
companies and joint ventures. Loans has been given for general corporate purpose. In some of 
the cases, the subsidiaries, associate and joint ventures have utilised borrowings for further 
investment as per their business requirement. Details of the Loans and investments are as follows:

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 472
Annual Report 
2023
449
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Name of 
Intermediary
CIN
Relation with 
Company
Type
Date
Amount
Name of Ultimate beneficiary
Relation with 
Intermediary
Type
Date
Amount
Admirable 
Software 
Limited
U72900DL2021
PLC385287
Associate 
Company
Optionally 
Convertible 
Debentures
August 27, 
2021
175
Urja Money Private Limited
Ultimate beneficiary is 
the subsidiary of the 
company which has 
significant influence over 
the intermediary
Equity 
Investment
August 27, 2021
175
Admirable 
Software 
Limited
U72900DL2021
PLC385287
Associate 
Company
Optionally 
Convertible 
Debentures
February 
11, 2022
57
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies 
Private Limited
Ultimate beneficiary is 
the subsidiary of the 
company which has 
significant influence over 
the intermediary
Equity 
Investment
February 18, 2022
7
Urja Money 
Private Limited
U93000MH2012
PTC237284
Subsidiary 
Company
Loan
June 30, 
2021
15
Fincollect Services Private 
Limited
Subsidiary of the 
intermediary
Loan
July 15, 2021
5
Urja Money 
Private Limited
U93000MH2012
PTC237284
Subsidiary 
Company
 Optionally 
Convertible 
Debentures
September 
28, 2021
30
Fincollect Services Private 
Limited
Ultimate beneficiary is 
the subsidiary of the 
company which has 
significant influence over 
the intermediary
Loan
September 30, 2021
1
October 1, 2021
*
October 7, 2021
*
October 18, 2021
15
November 2, 2021
*
November 30, 2021
*
December 31, 2021
3
January 6, 2022
*
First Games 
Technology 
Private Limited 
(formerly 
known as 
Paytm First 
Games Private 
Limited)
U74999DL2017
PTC325912
Joint Venture
Loan
June 7, 
2021
803
First Games Singapore Pte. Ltd. 
(formerly known as Paytm First 
Games Singapore Pte. Ltd.)
Subsidiary of the 
intermediary
Equity 
Investment
June 30, 2021
28
First Games Singapore Pte. Ltd. 
(formerly known as Paytm First 
Games Singapore Pte. Ltd.)
Subsidiary of the 
intermediary
Equity 
Investment
September 6, 2021
11
Paytm Technology Beijing Co., 
Limited
Subsidiary of the 
intermediary
Equity 
Investment
September 4, 2021
1
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III
One 97 Communications Limited
For the year ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022:

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 473
Annual Report 
2023
450
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
 
The above transactions are in compliance with the relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange 
Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and the Companies Act, 2013 and the transactions are not 
violative of the Prevention of Money-Laundering act, 2002 (15 of 2003).
	
Notes given by the subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures in their respective 
standalone financial statements
	
Paytm Financial Services Limited
	
For the year ended March 31, 2023:
 
"Utilsation of the borrowed funds and share premium in the holding company.
Date
Amount Mode
Funding Party
May 10, 2022
 220 Optionally Convertible Debenture One 97 Communications Limited
May 10, 2022
 230 Optionally Convertible Debenture VSS Investco Private Limited
 
During the previous year, the Company has received funds from its Ultimate Holding Company, 
One 97 Communications Limited (OCL) , and VSS Investco Private Limited as mentioned in the 
table above. The Company has not yet utilised the above funds for its business operations."
	
For the year ended March 31, 2022:	 	
	
	
	
	
	
 
"Utilsation of the borrowed funds and share premium in the holding company.
Date
Amount Mode
Funding Party
February 24, 2021
 250 Inter Company Deposits
One 97 Communications Limited
March 25, 2021
 200 Inter Company Deposits
One 97 Communications Limited
 
During the previous year, the Company has received funds from its Ultimate Holding Company, 
One 97 Communications Limited (OCL) as mentioned in the table above. The Company has utilised 
the above funds for its business operations and invested an amount of INR 1 and INR 450 to 
its Subsidiary Companies, Admirable Software Limited on August 17, 2021 and Foster Payment 
Networks Private Limited on March 26, 2021, respectively.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 474
Annual Report 
2023
451
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
Date
Amount Mode
Funding Party
August 27, 2021
 175 Optionally Convertible 
Debentures
One 97 Communications Limited
February 11, 2022
 57 Optionally Convertible 
Debentures
One 97 Communications Limited
 
Utilsation of the borrowed funds and share premium in the subsidiary company.
 
During the year, the Admirable Software Limited has received funds from its Ultimate Holding 
Company, One 97 Communications Limited (OCL) as mentioned in the table above. The Company 
has utilised the above funds for its business operations and has also invested an amount of INR 
175 to its Associate Company, Urja Money Private Limited on August 27, 2021 and invested an 
amount of INR 7 in Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited on February 18, 2022.
 
The above transactions are in compliance with the relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange 
Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and the Companies Act, 2013 and the transactions are not 
violative of the Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 2003)."
Date
Amount Mode
Funding Party
June 29, 2021
 15 Inter Company Deposits
One 97 Communications Limited
September 28, 2021
 30 Optionally Convertible 
Debentures
One 97 Communications Limited
	
Urja Money Private Limited
	
For the year ended March 31, 2022:
 
"During the year, the Company has received funds from its Holding Company, One 97 Communications 
Limited (OCL) as mentioned in the table above. The Company has utilised the above funds for its 
business operations and has also lent an amount of INR 25 to its wholly owned subsidiary, Fincollect 
Services Private Limited (“FSPL”) on various dates during the year. The maximum outstanding 
balance of FSPL in the Company’s books at any point during the year was  INR 24.
 
The above transactions are in compliance with the relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange 
‘Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and the Companies Act, 2013 and the transactions are not 
violative of the Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 2003)."

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 475
Annual Report 
2023
452
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
	
First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known as Paytm First 
Games Private Limited)
	
For the year ended March 31, 2022:
 
"One 97 Communications Limited ("Parent of the Joint Venture Partner") has provided a loan to 
its joint venture, First Games Technology Private Limited (formerly known as Paytm First Games 
Private Limited) ("The Intermediary") of INR 803 on June 7, 2021. Subsequently, the Company, 
based on the approvals from its Board, made a decision to invest part of the proceeds in First 
Games Singapore Pte. Ltd. (formerly known as Paytm First Games Singapore Pte. Ltd.) of INR 
28 and INR 11 on June 30, 2021 and September 6, 2021, respectively aggregating to INR 39. 
Further, the Company also made investments in Paytm Technology (Beijing) Co., Limited of INR 
1 on September 4, 2021.
 
The above transactions are in compliance with relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange 
Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999), Companies Act and are not violative of the Prevention of 
Money-Laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 2003)."
	
Little Internet Private Limited
	
For the year ended March 31, 2022:
 
"On December 30, 2019 the Company had taken a Inter Corporate Loan (ICD) of INR 70 from 
its holding Company One 97 Communications Limited (‘OCL’) with the understanding that the 
Company may invest in its Subsidiary Company (“Nearbuy”). Accordingly, the Company has 
invested fund in the Subsidiary Company amounting to Rs.7 (March 31, 2021: Rs.66).
 
Relevant provisions of Companies Act has been complied with for such transactions and the 
transactions are not violative of the Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 2003)."
(ii) The Group has availed loan from the bank on the basis of security of current assets as disclosed 
under note 12(a) of the financial statements. The Group file statement of current assets with the 
bank on quarterly basis. There are no material discrepancies between the statement filed and 
the books of accounts.
(iii) Disclosure of Struck off Companies
 
Details of transactions entered into by the Group with companies struck off under section 248 
of Companies Act, 2013 or section 560 of Companies Act, 1956 are as follows:
	
(a) One 97 Communications Limited (Holding Company)
 
 
(i) There are no Balances reported with the companies identified as struck off under section 
248 of Companies Act, 2013 or section 560 of Companies Act, 1956 as at March 31, 2023 
and March 31, 2022. During the year, the Company has written off and written back the 
balances with struck off companies amounting to * and 1 respectively. 
 
 
 
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company.

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 476
Annual Report 
2023
453
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Name of struck off companies
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2023
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2022 #
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
company
Allstars United India Private Limited #, M K 
Enterprises Private Limited, Prince Enterprises 
Private Limited, Anu Travels Private Limited, 
S K Consultancy Services Private Limited, 
Blackeyed Event Management Private Limited, 
Genesis Foundation Pvt Ltd, Magnum Fashions 
Private Limited, Pb Entertainment Private 
Limited, Razzle Dazzle Entertainment Private 
Limited, Shivam Enterprises Pvt Ltd, Travel Plus 
India Private Limited.
1
* Customer
Name of struck off companies
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2023
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2022 #
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
company
Clay Station Art Studios Private Limited #, 
Indecor Private Limited, Matrix Technologies 
Private Limited, S .K. Travels Private Limited, 
Sun Enterprises Private Limited, Third Eye 
Security Systems Private Limited.
*
*
Vendor
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
 
 
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group.
 
 
# Balance outstanding as at March 31, 2022 pertains to only one party – Allstars United India 
Private Limited
 
 
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group.
 
 
# Balance outstanding as at March 31, 2022 pertains to only one party – Clay Station Art 
Studios Private Limited.
	
(b) Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited (Subsidiary)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 477
Annual Report 
2023
454
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
	
(c) Little Internet Private Limited (Subsidiary)
Name of struck off companies
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2023 & 
March 31, 
2022
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
company
A. J. Beauty and Health Private Limited, A3 Health Food Ventures Private 
Limited, Anavila Foods Private Limited, B.S. Enterprises Private Limited, 
Al Global Beverages Private Limited, Al-an Ventures Private Limited, 
Ashleys Patisserie Private Limited, Aviashi Foods Private Limited, Big 
Bite Hospitality Private Limited, Chirag Restaurant Private Limited, Cafe 
Nine Private Limited, Chanson Hospitality Private Limited, City One 
Cafe & Bar Private Limited, Every Door Mystery Private Limited, Flash 
Foods and Beverages Private Limited, Frosty Foods and Beverages 
Private Limited, Falcon Hospitality Private Limited, Fnb Delights Private 
Limited, Fomokart Retail Private Limited, Food konnect Hospitality 
Private Limited, Green Park Hotels & Resorts Limited, Goldeneagle 
Fuds Private Limited, Golden Ginger Services Private Limited, Gratom 
Hospitality Private Limited, Iaea Food and Drinks Private Limited, Incubo 
Infotech Private Limited, Jitendra hindusthan Dhaba Private Limited, 
Jumbo Seafoods Private Limited, KV Hospitality Private Limited, 
Kattumaram Restaurants Private Limited, Malt and Leaf Hospitality 
Private Limited, Meuse Hotels and Hospitality Private Limited, Nfc 
Foods India Private Limited, Nutri Kitchen Private Limited, Pad Food 
Joint Private Limited, Palette Foods Private Limited, Pizzaroma Food 
Private Limited, Praana Restaurants Private Limited, Queen Marys 
Lifestyle Private Limited, R.j.establishments Private Limited, Rmb 
Hospitality (India) Private Limited, Rainbow Lifestyle Factory Private 
Limited, Red Ninja Hospitality Private Limited, Sahara Hospitality 
Limited, Sva Hospitality Private Limited, Scubert Retail Services 
Private Limited, Shivmitar Foodlinks Private Limited, Soni Mamaji 
Foods Private Limited, Tbc Tiffin Kaku Private Limited, Tech2trend 
It Solutions Private Limited, Tughlaq Foods Private Limited, Versus 
Hospitality Private Limited, Vittlecious Hospitality Private Limited, Ypa 
Hospitality Private Limited, Ariyansh Foods Private Limited. 
Amount 
individually 
and as 
aggregate 
are below 
rounding 
off norms 
adopted by 
the Group
Merchant - 
receivables 

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 478
Annual Report 
2023
455
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
Name of struck off companies
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2023 & 
March 31, 
2022
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
company
Mahalaxmi Foods Private Limited, Maharaj Foods Private Limited, 
Mak Enterprise Private Limited, Ang Hospitality Private Limited, M 
S Enterprises Private Limited, Oram Foods Private Limited, Orange 
Feeds Private Limited, Orange Foods Private Limited, Anm Hospitality 
Private Limited, Parmar Associates Private Limited, Perfect Foods 
Private Limited, Pg Enterprises Private Limited, P.R. Hospitality Private 
Limited, Prarambh Spa Private Limited, R K Ceramics Private Limited, 
Raj Residency Private Limited, Rangat Restaurant Private Limited, Rohan 
Enterprises Private Limited, Royal Cafe Private Limited, Royal Enterprises 
Private Limited, Rudra Enterprises Private Limited, S V Motors Private 
Limited, Arv Hospitality Private Limited, Siddhivinayak Enterprises 
Private Limited, S K Ventures Private Limited, S M Enterprises Private 
Limited, S N Hospitality Private Limited, Spark Beauty Parlour Private 
Limited, Sri Venkateshwara Power Private Limited, Suman Enterprises 
Private Limited, Sushama Private Limited, Unnati Foods Private Limited, 
Vansh Enterprises Private Limited, Viva Foods Private Limited, White 
Feathers Hospitality Private Limited, White Orchid Resorts Private 
Limited, Wholesome Foods Private Limited, Worldwide Holidays Limited, 
Yummy Foods Private Limited, Bharti Foods Private Limited, Abc 
Entertainment Private Limited, Elite Enterprises Private Limited, Exotic 
Foods Private Limited, Exotic Foods PrivateLimited, Folklore Restaurants 
Private Limited, Foodkonnect Hospitality Private Limited, Foodoceana 
Hotels Private Limited, Fortune Suites Private Limited, G.K Foods Private 
Limited, Greenwell Enterprises Private Limited, Aishwarya Enterprises 
Private Limited Hamsa Private Limited, Honeywell Enterprises Private 
Limited, Horizon Hospitality Private Limited, Hospitality Asia Private 
Limited, Hotel Hillview (P) Limited, Hotel Maharaja Private Limited, 
Hotel Mount Heera Private Limited, Hotel Sura Palace P.Limited, Just 
Biryani Private Limited, Kiku’S Restaurant And Bar Private Limited,
Amount 
individually 
and as 
aggregate 
are below 
rounding 
off norms 
adopted by 
the Group
Merchant - 
receivables

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 479
Annual Report 
2023
456
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Name of struck off companies
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2023 & 
March 31, 
2022
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
company
Kurtarkar Hotels Private Limited, Lotus Associates Private Limited, M 
M And Associates Private Limited, Bglam Services Private Limited, 
Blue Mango Hospitality Private Limited, Bts Hospitality Private 
Limited, C V Restaurant Private Limited, Comrades Cafe Private 
Limited, D L Holdings Private Limited, Darshan Enterprises Private 
Limited, Dice Hospitality Private Limited, Disha International Private 
Limited, Elegant Enterprises Private Limited, Foodindex Restaurants 
Private Limited, G-six Flavours Private Limited, Gui Technologies 
Private Limited, Guru Foods Private Limited, Hazzel Dairy Products 
Private Limited, Honrao Hotels Private Limited, Impresa Hospitality 
Management Private Limited, In Green Hotels Private Limited, Infinite 
One Foods Private Limited, Jarota Enterprises Private Limited, 
Jk Amici Hotels Private Limited, Jsr Hospitality Private Limited, 
Kan - Ket Marketing (Opc) Private Limited, Maharaj Foods Private 
Limited, Mandakini Vacations Private Limited ,Maple Leafwoods 
Private Limited, Maypri Foods Private Limited, Micro Hotels Private 
Limited, Mookh Salons and Academy Private Limited, Mughal Darbar 
Restaurants Private Limited, Paris Baker Private Limited, Pathway 
Hospitalities Private Limited, Paulsons Hospitality Private Limited, 
Pine Tree Hospitality Private Limited, Royal Almond Hospitality 
Private Limited.
Amount 
individually 
and as 
aggregate 
are below 
rounding 
off norms 
adopted by 
the Group
Merchant - 
receivables
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 480
Annual Report 
2023
457
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
Name of struck off companies
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2023 & 
March 31, 
2022
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
company
A K Hotels Private Limited, A K M Enterprises Private Limited, 
Aarav Hospitality Services Private Limited, Acrotech (India) Private 
Limited, Ahoy Foods Private Limited, Ak Enterprises Private Limited, 
Akshaya Pathra Private Limited, Alive Day Spa Private Limited, 
Amarnath Enterprises Private Limited, Anji Foods Private Limited, 
Aries Marcom Private Limited, Asthavinaayak Cuisines Private 
Limited, Aten Foods Private Limited , Athithi Inn Private Limited, 
Balaji Hospitality Services Private Limited, Barcelos India Private 
Limited, Aek Healthy Routes Private Limited, Aroundu Labs Private 
Limited, De Miami Cocoa Private Limited, Di Hair Salon Private 
Limited, Dietshala Private Limited, Fs Dining Private Limited, Fruition 
Hotels Private Limited, Gourmet Trails Private Limited, Hkk Foods 
Private Limited, Jackpot Ventures Private Limited, Kari Virunthu 
Restaurant Private Limited, King Mithaiwala Private Limited, La 
Pizzaiolo Foods Private Limited, Maruti Retail Private Limited, 
Metatron Hospitality India Private Limited, One World Cuisine Private 
Limited, Ora Dent Clinic Private Limited, Ora Dent Clinic Private 
Limited, Penguin Resorts Private Limited, R T Deshmukh Hotels 
(Pune) Private Limited, Simplify Gastronomy Private Limited, Sky 
Spa Private Limited, Solar Heights Developers Private Limited, Star 
Gourmet Private Limited, Thanco Natural Foods Private Limited, 
Triage Infrastructures (India) Private Limited, Two Aar’s Health 
& Fitness Private Limited, Urban Mingle Hospitality India Private 
Limited, Vip Pizza International Private Limited, Zi Foods Private 
Limited. Magic Meals Private Limited, Marina Enterprises Private 
Limited, Matrix Foods Private Limited, Mini Foods Private Limited, 
Msd Enterprises Private Limited, N.V. Foods Private Limited, Navrang 
Private Limited, New Town Restaurants Private Limited, Nishim
Amount 
individually 
and as 
aggregate 
are below 
rounding 
off norms 
adopted by 
the Group
Merchant - 
payables

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 481
Annual Report 
2023
458
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Name of struck off companies
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2023 & 
March 31, 
2022
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
company
Wellness Private Limited, Nishim Wellness Private Limited, N P 
S Foods Private Limited, Om Industries Private Limited, Omega 
Marketing Private Limited, Paradise Spa Limited, Paras Enterprises 
Private Limited, R & G Foods Private Limited, Rainbow Enterprises 
Private Limited, Apple Health-Care Limited, Roots De Salon Cafe 
Private Limited, S.M. Ventures Private Limited, San Enterprises 
Private Limited, Shine Hospitality Private Limited, A S A Enterprises 
Private Limited, Shri Khatushyamji Fuels Private Limited, Signature 
Sweets Private Limited, Skillet And Griddle Private Limited, Soham 
Enterprises Limited, S R K Enterprises Private Limited, Sunita Private 
Limited, Avighna Enterprises Private Limited, Vidhi Enterprises 
Private Limited, Virat Foods Private Limited, Chunilal Private Limited, 
Deepak Private Limited, Delites Services Private Limited, Dharika 
Enterprises Private Limited, Frontline Builders PrivateLimited, 
Front Line Builders Private Limited, G T S Enterprises Private 
Limited, Hifirooms Private Limited, Hospitality Zone Private Limited, 
Hotel Amir Private Limited, Hotel Lavina Private Limited, Hotel 
Blue Bird Private Limited, Hotel City Centre Private Limited, Hotel 
Crown Private Limited, Akshara Communications Private Limited, 
Hotel Grace Private Limited, Hotel Mallikai Private Limited, Hotel 
M.G.Residency Private Limited, Hotel Salty Private Limited, Hotel 
Tourist Private Limited, Hotel Vinayak Private Limited, H.S. Foods 
Private Limited, Indian Bites Private Limited, Infinity Enterprises 
Private Limited, Infinity Hospitality Private Limited, Alternate Etail 
Private Limited, Jubin Media Private Limited, Kamakshi Enterprises 
Private Limited, Krishna Marketing Private Limited, American Bites 
Private Limited, Leyan Beauty Lounge Private Limited, Berkowits 
Hair And Skin Clinic Private Limited, Better Foods Private
Amount 
individually 
and as 
aggregate 
are below 
rounding 
off norms 
adopted by 
the Group
Merchant - 
payables
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 482
Annual Report 
2023
459
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Name of struck off companies
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2023 & 
March 31, 
2022
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
company
Limited, Big Barter Marketing Private Limited, Bluestone Hospitality 
Private Limited, Boudoir Lounge Private Limited, Bridgelink Wellness 
Private Limited, Bss Enterprises Private Limited, Celebrity Fitness 
India Private Limited, Celestial Hotels Private Limited, Club House 
Private Limited, D Lite Frankies And Foods Private Limited, D Lite 
Frankies and Foods Private limited, Food Fanatics Private Limited, G 
K Culinary Private Limited, Grand Enterprises Private Limited, Gravy 
Train Hospitality Private Limited, Hospitality Plus Private Limited, 
Hotel Rajmahal Private Limited, Hotel Sanjay Private Limited, Hsl 
Gourmet House Private Limited, I Square Hospitality Private Limited, 
Impressions Food and Hospitality Private Limited, Indus Builders 
PrivateLimited, Indus Builders Pvt.ltd., J.S.K. Foods Private Limited, 
Jbs Ventures Private Limited, Kitchen Stories Retail Private Limited, 
League Concepts Limited, M M Enterprises Private Limited, M S 
Enterprises Private Limited, M.a.hospitality Private Limited, M.M. 
Associates Private Limited, Mahadev Com Limited, Malt and Leaf 
Hospitality Private Limited, Manna Hospitality Private Limited, 
Mass Blurb Private Limited, Metro Dhaba Private Limited, Narang 
Associates Private Limited, Nfm Studios Private Limited, Ninety5 
Hotels Private Limited, Nisha Associates Private Limited, Oleander 
Hospitality Private Limited, Om Sai Enterprises Private Limited, Pan 
Club Hotels Private Limited, Pandora Hospitality Private Limited, 
Potheads Food Private Limited, Pragati ways Food Tech Private 
Limited, Prav Hospitality Private Limited, Purple Projects Private 
Limited, R.M. Associates Private Limited, Rajina Private Limited, 
Rembrandt Fashion Hospitality Private Limited, Reviera Beauty 
Private Limited, Royal Communications Private Limited.
Amount 
individually 
and as 
aggregate 
are below 
rounding 
off norms 
adopted by 
the Group
Merchant - 
payables
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 483
Annual Report 
2023
460
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Name of struck off companies
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2023 & 
March 31, 
2022
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
company
AKM Enterprises Private Limited, Andiviaa Entertainments Private 
Limited, Compere Hotels Private Limited, GK Motel Private Limited, 
Madras Ventures Private Limited, Next Level Food & Beverages 
Private Limited, Piccadily Holiday Resorts Limited, Prakruthi Ayurveda 
And Wellness, Red Ninja Hospitality Private Limited, Shivmitar Food 
links Private Limited, T & D Ventures Private Limited, Uzhavan 
Foods Private Limited, Vroom Technologies Private Limited, Zam 
Zam Caterers Private Limited., Skinsense Private Limited, Oasis 
restaurants Private Limited, S M enterprises Private Limited, 
International canends Private Limited, Yuvi entertainment Private 
Limited, Baan spa Private Limited, Charisma spa Private Limited, 
S M enterprises Private Limited, V.S. enterprises Private Limited, 
J.M.D. enterprises Private Limited, White lotus spa Private Limited, 
Barcelos India Private Limited, Infinity Hospitality Private Limited, 
Eminent Entertainment Private Limited, Om Sai Enterprises Private 
Limited, S P Enterprises Private Limited, Meuse Hotels And Hospitality 
Private limited, K.V.S.Enterprises Private Limited, Rainbow Enterprises 
Pvt Ltd, A K M Enterprises Private Limited, Sun Systems Pvt Ltd, 
Navrang Pvt Ltd, Vishal Electronics Private Limited, Anu Foods 
Limited, Aquarius Private Limited, Marvel Foods Pvt Ltd, Mahanirvana 
Hospitality Private Limited, Comrades Cafe Private Limited, Club 
House Private Limited, Solaris Corporate Services Private Limited, 
Birla Ayurveda Private Limited, Kavya Enterprises Private Limited, 
A S A Enterprises Pvt Ltd, Prakriti Enterprises Private Limited, Royal 
Baker Private Ltd, Piccadily Holiday Resorts Ltd, Invictus Hospitality 
Private Limited, Surya Communications Pvt Ltd, Shiva Foods Pvt 
Ltd, M. G. Hospitality Private Limited, Bhole HR Solutions Private
Amount 
individually 
and as 
aggregate 
are below 
rounding 
off norms 
adopted by 
the Group
Merchant – 
receivables
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
	
(d) Nearbuy India Private Limited (Subsidiary)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 484
Annual Report 
2023
461
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
Name of struck off companies
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2023 & 
March 31, 
2022
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
company
Limited, Black Salt Restaurants Private Limited, Entertainment 
Nine Private Limited, Harry’s Kitchens Private Limited, International 
Recreation & Amusement Limited, J One Entertainment Private 
Limited, Meuse hotels and Hospitality Private Limited, Mina 
Enterprises Private Limited, Mud Flap Technologies Private Limited, 
S. R. G. Foods Private Limited, Shri Krishna Hitech Private Limited, 
Smart Kar Kare Services Private Limited, Star Events Private Limited, 
Staypure Private Limited, Sukhija Hospitality Private Limited.
Amount 
individually 
and as 
aggregate 
are below 
rounding 
off norms 
adopted by 
the Group
Merchant – 
receivables
Name of struck off companies
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2023 & 
March 31, 
2022
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
company
Leyan beauty lounge Private Limited, RU’s beauty care Private Limited, 
Duet India hotels (Nagpur) Private Limited, Lucky enterprises Private 
Limited, Trend creators Private Limited, Infinity enterprises Private 
Limited, Prakruthi ayurveda and wellness private limited, Sunshine 
services Private Limited, Aishwarya enterprises Private Limited, 
Oasis day spa Private Limited, Rohan enterprises Private Limited, 
Suruchi foods Private Limited, SNR enterprises Private Limited, Sri 
Mookambigai foods Private Limited, Paras infotech Private Limited, 
Bharati Private Limited, S P enterprises Private Limited, A.R. associates 
Private Limited, Swarna Enterprises Private Limited, A G Enterprises 
Pvt Ltd, A V Hospitality Private Limited, Alive Day Spa Private Limited, 
BTS hospitality Private Limited,
Amount 
individually 
and as 
aggregate 
are below 
rounding 
off norms 
adopted by 
the Group
Merchant – 
payables

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 485
Annual Report 
2023
462
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
Name of struck off companies
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2023 & 
March 31, 
2022
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
company
D.M. Enterpries Private Limited, Elite enterprises Private Limited, 
G.R.International Private Limited, Greenpark Hotels & Resorts 
Limited, Headlines makeover studio privatelimited, International 
Recreation & Amusement Limited, Khan And Sirohi Electro 
Mechanical Private Limited, Mag leisures Private Limited, Mantra 
solutions Private Limited, Meera Samuh Hospitality Services Private 
Limited, O2 spa Private Limited, Radha Mohan Buildtech Private 
Limited, Rekha business solutions Private Limited, Rida enterprises 
Private Limited, Rocksalt foods Private Limited, Royal associates 
Private Limited, Sahara Hospitality Limited, Sairam enterprises 
Private Limited, Suruchi foods Private Limited, Tease Salon Private 
Limited, Thai Orchid Hospitality Private Limited, Tif digital Private 
Limited, V S realestate Private Limited, YoYo Club Private Limited, 
Yuga enterprises Private Limited
Amount 
individually 
and as 
aggregate 
are below 
rounding 
off norms 
adopted by 
the Group
Merchant – 
payables
Name of struck off companies
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2023 & 
March 31, 
2022
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
company
Ambica Enterprises Private Limited, Elegant Hospitality Private Limited, 
Studio Kraft Pvt Ltd, M Studio Private Limited, Divyam Enterprises 
Private Limited, Springfield Process Private Limited, Divine Spa Private 
Limited, Impact Marketing Private Limited, Laxmi Enterprises Private 
Limited, Dew Wellness Private Limited, Millenium Services Private 
Limited, Kumar Enterprises Private Limited, Rajdeep Enterprises Private 
Limited, Devour Skin Care Private Limited, Shivam Enterprises Pvt 
Ltd, Gulia Enterprises Private Limited, J.D.Hotels Private Limited, Lata 
Enterprises Private Limited, Crudex Lng Petroleum Private Limited, 
Footcare Private Limited
Nil
Merchant

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 486
Annual Report 
2023
463
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
	
(e) Paytm Payments Services Limited (Subsidiary)
Name of struck off companies
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2023
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2022
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
company
Immune Mantra Private Limited
5
-
Merchant
Genblue Hitech Private Limited
2
-
Merchant
Light Catcher Information Technology Private 
Limited
1
-
Merchant
Bombardin Tech Private Limited
1
-
Merchant
Name of struck off companies
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2023
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2022
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
company
AP Immigration Private Limited, Dailman 
Technology Private Limited, Siriyan Business 
Solutions Private Limited, Globalares Technologies 
Private Limited, Fruitful Harvest Private Limited , 
Lorene Solutions Private Limited, Sikpav Infotech 
Private Limited, Indrajit and Arijit Private Limited, 
Blustorm Hitech Private Limited, Svitt Hitech 
Private Limited, UCPAY India Private Limited, 
VRO Business Consultant Private Limited, Studio 
Kervin Private Limited, Loadingwala Smart 
Logistics Private Limited, Screeno Solutions 
Private Limited, Limu Agro Fresh Private Limited, 
DTS Enterprises Private Limited, Mars Buildhome 
Developers Limited, Skad Construction Private 
Limited, Saanchi Energy Private Limited, Flight 
Mantra Private Limited, Just Jobs Internet 
Services Private Limited, Mawale Infotech Private 
Limited, Marcom Marketing Services Private 
Limited
2
Amount 
individually 
and as 
aggregate 
are below 
rounding 
off norms 
adopted by 
the Group
Merchant

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 487
Annual Report 
2023
464
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
(iv) Details of benami property held
 
The Group does not hold any benami property and no proceedings have been initiated on or are 
pending against the Group under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 (as 
amended in 2016) (formerly the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988)) and 
Rules made thereunder.
(v) Wilful defaulter
 
The Group has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government 
or any government authority.
(vi) Compliance with number of layers of companies
 
The Group has complied with the number of layers prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013.
(vii) Compliance with approved scheme(s) of arrangements
 
The Company has not entered into any scheme of arrangement which has an accounting impact 
on current or previous financial year.
(viii) Undisclosed income
 
There is no income surrendered or disclosed as income during the current or previous year in 
the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961, that has not been recorded in the books 
of account.
(ix) Details of crypto currency or virtual currency
 
The Group has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the current 
or previous year.  
(x) Valuation of PPE, intangible asset and investment property
 
The Group does not have any investment property during the current or previous year. The Group 
has chosen cost model for its Property, Plant and Equipment and intangible assets and hence no 
revaluation was carried out for these assets.
(xi) Title deeds of immovable properties not held in name of the company 
 
The title deeds of all the immovable properties are held in the name of the Group during the 
current and previous year.
(xii) Registration of charges or satisfaction with Registrar of Companies
 
There are no charges or satisfaction which are yet to be registered with the Registrar of Companies 
beyond the statutory period.
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 488
Annual Report 
2023
465
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
(xiii) Utilisation of borrowings availed from banks and financial institutions.
 
The Group has utilised the borrowing for the purpose it was obtainded.
45. Company Secretary
Mr. Amit Khera, Company Secretary of the Holding Company has resigned from the Holding Company 
with effect from March 14, 2023. The Holding Company is in the process of identifying the replacement 
and shall make the appointment at the earliest and in any event within the applicable statutory time 
limit.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP 
Firm registration number: 012754N/ N500016
Amitesh Dutta | Partner 
Membership No: 058507 
Place: Gurugram | Date: May 5, 2023
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of One 97 Communications Limited
Vijay Shekhar Sharma | Chairman, 
Madhur Deora | Executive Director, 
Managing Director and CEO 
President & Group Chief Financial Officer 
DIN No. 00466521 
DIN No. 07720350 
Place: New Delhi | Date: May 5, 2023 
Place: Mumbai | Date: May 5, 2023

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 489
Notes

File: annual_report_23, Page number: 491
Registered Office
One 97 Communications Limited
First Floor, Devika Tower Nehru Place
New Delhi – 110019, India
Corporate Office
One 97 Communications Limited
One Skymark, Tower-D, Plot No. H-10B,
Sector-98, Noida - 201304 Uttar Pradesh
Telephone No.: +91 120 - 4770 770;
Fax No.: +91 120 - 4770 771
CIN No: L72200DL2000PLC108985
Email: compliance.officer@paytm.com;
Website: www.paytm.com

