File: annual_report_22, Page number: 0
July 28, 2022 
BSE Limited 
Department of Corporate Services, 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, 
Dalal Street, Fort, 
Mumbai - 400 001 
Scrip Code: 543396 
PaYtm 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
The Listing Department, 
Exchange Plaza, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Mumbai - 400 051 
Symbol : PAYTM 
Subject: 
Notice of 22nd Annual General Meeting and Annual Report for the financial year 2021-22 
Dear Sir/ Ma'am, 
This is to inform that the 22nd Annual General Meeting ('AGM') of the Company is scheduled to be 
held on Friday, August 19, 2022 at 4:30 P.M. (1ST) through Video Conference ('VC')/ Other Audio 
Visual Means ('OAVM') in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
the rules made thereunder and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 ('SEBI Listing Regulations'). 
Pursuant to Regulation 34 of SEBI Listing Regulations, we are enclosing herewith the following: 
1. 
Notice of the 22nd AGM 
2. 
Annual Report for the Financial Year 2021-22 
The aforesaid documents are available on the website of the Company at https://paytm.com/investor-
relations/agm and are being sent to all the eligible members through electronic mode, whose e-mail 
addresses are registered with the Company/ Depositories. 
The Company has provided the facility to vote by electronic means (remote e-voting as well as e-voting 
at the AGM) on all resolutions (as set out in the AGM notice) to those members, who are holding 
shares either in physical or in electronic form as on the cut-off date i.e. Friday, August 12, 2022. The 
remote e-voting shall commence at Monday, August 15, 2022 from 9:00 A.M. (1ST) and end at 
Thursday, August 18, 2022 at 5:00 P.M. (1ST). 
This disclosure will also be hosted on the Company's website viz. www.paytm.com. 
Kindly take the same on record. 
Thanking you 
Compa 
nee Officer 
One 97 Communications Limited 
compliance.officer@paytm.com 
www.paytm.com 
Corporate Office - One Skymark, Tower-D, Plot No. H-1 OB, Sector-98, Noida-201304 
T: +91120 4770770 
F: +91120 4770771 
CIN: L72200DL2000PLC108985 
Registered Office - 136, First Floor, Devika Tower, Nehru Place, New Delhi-110019 

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 1
One 97 Communications Limited
CIN: L72200DL2000PLC108985
Registered Office: First Floor, Devika Tower, Nehru Place, New Delhi - 110 019, Delhi
Corporate Office: One Skymark, Tower - D, Plot No. H - 10B, Sector - 98, Noida - 201304, Uttar Pradesh 
Telephone No.: +91 - 120 - 4770 770; Fax: +91 - 120 - 4770 771
Email: compliance.officer@paytm.com; Website: www.paytm.com
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the Twenty Second (22nd) 
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the members of One 
97 Communications Limited (“Company”), will be held 
on Friday, August 19, 2022 at 04:30 P.M. (IST) through 
Video Conferencing (“VC”)/ Other Audio Visual Means 
(“OAVM”) to transact the following businesses:
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1.	 To receive, consider and adopt the Audited 
Standalone 
and 
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements of the Company for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2022, together with 
the reports of the Board of Directors and 
Auditors thereon
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT the Audited Standalone Financial 
Statements of the Company for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2022, together with the reports of the Board 
of Directors and Auditors thereon, be and are hereby 
received, considered and adopted.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Audited Consolidated 
Financial Statements of the Company for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2022, together with the reports 
of the Auditors thereon, be and are hereby received, 
considered and adopted.”
2.	 To appoint a director in place of Mr. Ravi 
Chandra Adusumalli (DIN : 00253613), who 
retires by rotation and being eligible offers 
himself for re-appointment
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 152 and all other applicable provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013, Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli 
(DIN: 00253613), who retires by rotation and being 
eligible offers himself for re-appointment, be and is 
hereby re-appointed as a Director of the Company, 
liable to retire by rotation.”
SPECIAL BUSINESS:
3.	 To approve re-appointment of Mr. Vijay 
Shekhar 
Sharma 
(DIN: 
00466521) 
as 
Managing Director designated as “Managing 
Director and Chief Executive Officer” of the 
Company
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections 
196, 203, Schedule V and all other applicable provisions, 
if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), the Companies 
(Appointment 
and 
Remuneration 
of 
Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014, applicable provisions of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015 
(including 
any 
amendment(s), 
statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for 
the time being in force) or any other applicable laws, rules, 
regulations etc. for the time being in force, in accordance 
with relevant provisions of Articles of Association of 
the Company, subject to such approval, permission, 
consent, sanction as may be required and pursuant to 
the recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company 
(hereinafter referred to as the “Board” which term shall 
be deemed to include any Committee of the Board 
constituted to exercise its powers, including the powers 
conferred by this Resolution and/or such other persons 
as may be authorized in this regard by the Board and/or 
Committee), approval of the members of the Company, 
be and is hereby accorded, for re-appointment of  
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma (DIN: 00466521) as Managing 
Director of the Company designated as “Managing 
Director and Chief Executive Officer” (or such other 
designation as may be decided by the Board and/or 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, from time to 
time), for a further term of five (5) years with effect from 
01

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 2
December 19, 2022 to December 18, 2027, not liable 
to retire by rotation, on such terms and conditions, as 
detailed in the explanatory statement attached hereto.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of the Company, 
be and is hereby authorised to vary, alter and modify 
the terms and conditions of re-appointment of  
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma and further authorized to do 
all such acts, deeds, and things, as it may, in its absolute 
discretion deem necessary, expedient or desirable, 
with power on behalf of the Company to settle all such 
questions, difficulties or doubts whatsoever that may 
arise while giving effect to this resolution, without 
requiring the Board to secure any further consent or 
approval of the members of the Company.”
4.	 To approve payment of remuneration of  
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma (DIN: 00466521), 
Managing Director and Chief Executive 
Officer of the Company
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as a Special Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Sections 196(4), 197, 198, Schedule V and all other 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 
2013 (“Act”), the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, 
applicable provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015 
(including any amendment(s), statutory modification(s) 
or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in 
force) or any other applicable laws, rules, regulations 
etc. for the time being in force, in accordance with 
relevant provisions of Articles of Association of the 
Company, subject to such approval, permission, 
consent, sanction as may be required and pursuant to 
the recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company 
(hereinafter referred to as the “Board” which term shall 
be deemed to include any Committee of the Board 
constituted to exercise its powers, including the powers 
conferred by this Resolution and/or such other persons 
as may be authorized in this regard by the Board 
and/or Committee), approval of the members of the 
Company, be and is hereby accorded, for payment of 
remuneration to Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Managing 
Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, 
for a term of three (3) financial years (“FY”), i.e. for  
FY 2022 - 23, FY 2023 - 24 and FY 2024 - 25, as 
detailed in the explanatory statement attached hereto, 
as a minimum remuneration where the Company has no 
profits or the profits of the Company are inadequate, 
notwithstanding that the aforesaid remuneration may 
be in excess of the limits specified under Section 197 
and Schedule V of the Act.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of the Company, 
be and is hereby authorised to vary, alter and modify 
the terms and conditions of remuneration of Mr. Vijay 
Shekhar Sharma, within the overall limits approved 
herein, and further authorized to do all such acts, 
deeds, and things, as it may, in its absolute discretion 
deem necessary, expedient or desirable, with power 
on behalf of the Company to settle all such questions, 
difficulties or doubts whatsoever, that may arise while 
giving effect to this resolution, without requiring the 
Board to secure any further consent or approval of the 
members of the Company.”
5.	 To approve appointment of Mr. Madhur Deora 
(DIN: 07720350), as Whole-time Director 
designated as “Executive Director, President 
and Group Chief Financial Officer” of the 
Company
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 
152, 160 and all other applicable provisions, if any, of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) and the relevant rules 
made thereunder, applicable provisions of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015 
(“SEBI 
Listing 
Regulations”) 
(including any amendment(s), statutory modification(s) 
or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force), 
in accordance with relevant provisions of Articles of 
Association of the Company, Mr. Madhur Deora (DIN: 
07720350), Chief Financial Officer of the Company, 
who was appointed as an additional director with 
effect from May 20, 2022 by the Board of Directors 
of the Company based on the recommendation of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, and who 
holds office as such up to the date of this (22nd) Annual 
General Meeting and in respect of whom the Company 
has received a notice in writing under Section 160(1) of 
the Act from a member proposing his candidature for 
the office of Director, be and is hereby appointed as a 
Director of the Company, liable to retire by rotation.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to the provisions 
of Sections 196, 203, Schedule V and all other 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Act, the Companies 
(Appointment 
and 
Remuneration 
of 
Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014, applicable provisions of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations (including any amendment(s), 
statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof 
for the time being in force) or any other applicable 
laws, rules, regulations etc. for the time being in force, 
in accordance with relevant provisions of Articles of 
Association of the Company, subject to such approval, 
permission, consent, sanction as may be required and 
pursuant to the recommendation of Nomination and 
02
Notice

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 3
Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors 
of the Company (hereinafter referred to as the “Board” 
which term shall be deemed to include any Committee 
of the Board constituted to exercise its powers, 
including the powers conferred by this Resolution and/
or such other persons as may be authorized in this 
regard by the Board and/or Committee), approval of the 
members of the Company, be and is hereby accorded, 
for appointment of Mr. Madhur Deora (DIN: 07720350) 
as a Whole-time Director of the Company designated 
as “Executive Director, President and Group Chief 
Financial Officer”, for a term of five (5) years with effect 
from May 20, 2022 to May 19, 2027, liable to retire by 
rotation, on such terms and conditions, as detailed in 
the explanatory statement attached hereto.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of the Company, 
be and is hereby authorised to vary, alter and modify 
the terms and conditions of appointment of Mr. Madhur 
Deora and further authorized to do all such acts, deeds, 
and things, as it may, in its absolute discretion deem 
necessary, expedient or desirable, with power on behalf 
of the Company to settle all such questions, difficulties 
or doubts whatsoever that may arise while giving effect 
to this resolution, without requiring the Board to secure 
any further consent or approval of the members of the 
Company.”
6.	 To approve remuneration of Mr. Madhur 
Deora (DIN: 07720350), Whole-time Director 
designated as “Executive Director, President 
and Group Chief Financial Officer” of the 
Company
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as a Special Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Sections 196(4), 197, 198, Schedule V and all other 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 
2013 (“Act”), the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, 
applicable provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015 
(including any amendment(s), statutory modification(s) 
or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in 
force) or any other applicable laws, rules, regulations 
etc. for the time being in force, in accordance with 
relevant provisions of Articles of Association of the 
Company, subject to such approval, permission, 
consent, sanction as may be required and pursuant to 
the recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company 
(hereinafter referred to as the “Board” which term shall 
be deemed to include any Committee of the Board 
constituted to exercise its powers, including the powers 
conferred by this Resolution and/or such other persons 
as may be authorized in this regard by the Board and/or 
Committee), approval of the members of the Company, 
be and is hereby accorded, for payment of remuneration 
to Mr. Madhur Deora, 'Executive Director, President 
and Group Chief Financial Officer' of the Company, for 
the period from May 20, 2022 to March 31, 2023, as 
detailed in the explanatory statement attached hereto, 
as a minimum remuneration where the Company has no 
profits or the profits of the Company are inadequate, 
notwithstanding that the aforesaid remuneration may 
be in excess of the limits specified under Section 197 
and Schedule V of the Act. 
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of the Company, 
be and is hereby authorised to vary, alter and modify 
the terms and conditions of remuneration of Mr. Madhur 
Deora, within the overall limits approved herein, and 
further authorized to do all such acts, deeds, and things, 
as it may, in its absolute discretion deem necessary, 
expedient or desirable, with power on behalf of the 
Company to settle all such questions, difficulties or 
doubts whatsoever that may arise while giving effect 
to this resolution, without requiring the Board to secure 
any further consent or approval of the members of  
the Company.”
7.	 To approve contribution to Charitable and 
other Funds
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 181 and all other applicable provisions, if 
any, of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) and relevant 
rules made thereunder (including any amendment(s), 
statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof 
for the time being in force), applicable provisions of 
the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 or any other applicable law, rules, 
regulations etc. for the time being in force, approval 
of the members of the Company, be and is hereby 
accorded, to the Board of Directors of the Company 
(hereinafter referred to as the “Board” which term shall 
be deemed to include any Committee of the Board 
constituted to exercise its powers, including the powers 
conferred by this Resolution and/or such other persons 
as may be authorized in this regard by the Board and/
or Committee), to contribute, donate, subscribe or 
otherwise provide assistance, from time to time, to bona 
fide charitable, social, benevolent and other funds, 
body, university, institute, society, trust, not-for-profit 
entities, NGOs including Paytm Foundation for carrying 
out one or more of the Corporate Social Responsibility 
activities listed in Schedule VII of the Act or any other 
charitable activities, as the Board may deem fit, for an 
aggregate amount of ₹ 10 Crores (Rupees Ten Crores 
only) per annum, in one of more tranches, for a period 
of three (3) financial years (“FY”) i.e. for FY 2022 - 23, 
FY2023 - 24 and FY 2024 - 25.
03
Notice

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 4
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of the Company, be and is hereby authorised to do all such acts, deeds, and 
things, as it may, in its absolute discretion deem necessary, expedient or desirable, with power on behalf of the Company 
to settle all such questions, difficulties or doubts whatsoever that may arise while giving effect to this resolution, without 
requiring the Board to secure any further consent or approval of the members of the Company.”
Registered Office:	
By order of the Board of the Directors
First Floor, Devika Tower,	
For One 97 Communications Limited
Nehru Place, New Delhi - 110 019
CIN: L72200DL2000PLC108985	
 
E-mail id: compliance.officer@paytm.com	
	
Amit Khera
	
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No.: A10827 
One Skymark, Tower - D, Plot No. H - 10B,
Date: May 20, 2022 	
Sector - 98, Noida - 201304, Uttar Pradesh 
04
Notice

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 5
Notes:
1.	
In view of the continuing COVID-19 pandemic, the 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”), vide its general 
circular nos. 14/2020 dated April 8, 2020, 17/2020 dated 
April 13, 2020, 20/2020 dated May 5, 2020, 02/2021 
dated January 13, 2021, 19/2021 dated December 08, 
2021, 21/2021 dated December 14, 2021 and 02/2022 
dated May 5, 2022, (collectively “MCA Circulars”) and 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) vide 
its circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 
dated May 12, 2020, circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/
CIR/P/2021/11 dated January 15, 2021 and circular no. 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 on May 13, 2022 
(collectively “SEBI Circulars”), permitted the holding 
of the AGM through VC/ OAVM, without the physical 
presence of the Members at a common venue, subject 
to compliance of various conditions mentioned therein. 
The registered office of the Company shall be deemed 
to be the venue for the AGM.
2.	
In compliance with the provisions of Section 108 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) read with Rule 20 
of the Companies (Management and Administration) 
Rules, 2014, Secretarial Standard on General Meetings 
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India 
(“SS-2”), Regulation 44 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI 
Listing Regulations”) and the MCA Circulars and SEBI 
Circulars, the Company is providing the facility of remote 
e-voting and e-voting at AGM to its Members in respect 
of the businesses to be transacted at the AGM. For this 
purpose, the Company has appointed Link Intime India 
Private Limited, the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent 
of the Company (“Link Intime/ RTA”), to provide the VC/ 
OAVM facility for conducting the AGM and for voting 
through remote e-voting or e-voting at the AGM. The 
procedure for participating in the meeting through VC/ 
OAVM is explained in notes. 
3.	
Pursuant to the provisions of the MCA Circulars, 
Members attending the 22nd AGM through VC/ OAVM 
shall be counted for the purpose of reckoning the 
quorum under Section 103 of the Act.
4.	
An explanatory statement pursuant to Section 102 
of the Act read with relevant rules made thereunder 
setting out material facts relating to the special business 
under Item Nos. 3 to 7 of the Notice of 22nd AGM (the 
“Notice”) forms part of the Notice. Further, the relevant 
details with respect to Item No. 2 pursuant to Regulation 
36(3) of SEBI Listing Regulations and SS-2, in respect 
of Director seeking appointment/ re-appointment at this 
AGM forms part of the Notice. The Board of Directors of 
the Company considered that the special business under 
Item No. 3 to 7, being unavoidable, shall be transacted at 
this AGM of the Company.
5.	 A Member entitled to vote at the AGM is 
entitled to appoint proxy to attend and vote 
on his/ her behalf and proxy need not be a 
member of the Company. In terms of the 
MCA Circulars, since the AGM is being held 
through VC/ OAVM, physical attendance 
of the Members has been dispensed with. 
Accordingly, the facility for appointment of 
the proxies by Members under Section 105 of 
the Act is not available and hence the Proxy 
Form and Attendance Slip are not annexed to 
this Notice. The attachment of the route map 
for the AGM venue is also dispensed with.
6.	
Institutional/ corporate shareholders (i.e. other than 
individuals, HUF’s, NRI’s, etc.) intending to participate 
through 
their 
authorized 
representative(s) 
are 
requested to send a scanned copy (JPEG/ PDF format) 
of their Board resolution/ authority letter/ power of 
attorney, etc. authorizing their representative(s) to 
participate in the AGM (through VC/ OAVM) and to vote 
on their behalf through remote e-voting or e-voting at 
the AGM. The said resolution/ authority letter/ power 
of attorney, etc. shall be sent through registered email 
address to the Scrutinizer at info@piassociates.co.in 
with a copy marked to enotices@linkintime.co.in and to 
the Company at compliance.officer@paytm.com. 
7.	 Electronic Dispatch of Notice and Annual 
Report
	
a)	
In compliance with the MCA Circulars and SEBI 
Circulars, the Notice along with the Annual Report 
2021-22 (“Annual Report”) is being sent only by 
electronic mode to those Members whose email 
address are registered with the Company/ RTA/ 
Depositories. Members may please note that this 
Notice and Annual Report will also be available 
on the Company’s website at www.paytm.com/
investor-relations/agm, websites of the Stock 
Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited at www.bseindia.com 
and 
www.nseindia.com 
respectively, 
and 
on 
the website of Link Intime at https://instavote.
linkintime.co.in.
	
b)	 Any person who acquire shares of the Company 
and becomes Member of the Company after the 
dispatch of Notice and holding shares as on the 
cut-off date, i.e. Friday, August 12, 2022 (“Cut-off 
date”), may obtain the login ID and password by 
sending a request at vishal.kumar@linkintime.co.in. 
However, if he/ she is already registered with Link 
Intime for remote e-voting, then he/ she can use 
his/ her existing user ID and password for casting 
the vote.
05
Notice

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 6
8.	 Inspection of the Documents 
	
The register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel 
and their shareholding maintained under Section 170 
of the Act, the register of contracts or arrangements 
in which Directors are interested under Section 189 of 
the Act and the certificate from the Secretarial Auditor 
of the Company certifying that the ESOP Schemes of 
the Company have been implemented in accordance 
with the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and 
Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021, as amended, and the 
resolution(s) passed by the members of the Company or 
any other documents referred to in the accompanying 
Notice and explanatory statement, shall be made 
available for inspection electronically by the Members, 
during business hour, in accordance with the applicable 
statutory requirements based on the requests received 
by the Company at compliance.officer@paytm.com.
9.	 Remote e-voting
	
a)	
The facility for the Members to exercise their right 
to vote through electronic means will be available 
during the following period:
	
	
Commencement of e-voting: Monday, August 15, 
2022 at 09:00 A.M. (IST) 
	
	
Conclusion of e-voting: Thursday, August 18, 
2022 at 05:00 P.M. (IST) 
	
b)	 The Members of the Company, whose name 
appears in the register of Members or in the register 
of beneficial owners maintained by the depositories 
as on the Cut-off date and who are otherwise 
not barred to cast their vote, are entitled to vote 
electronically either through remote e-voting or 
e-voting at the AGM, on the resolutions set forth 
in this Notice. Once the vote on a resolution is cast 
by the member, he shall not be allowed to change it 
subsequently or cast the vote again. A person who 
is not a Member as on the Cut-off date should treat 
this Notice for information purpose only. 
	
c)	
The remote e-voting will not be allowed beyond the 
aforesaid date and time and the e-voting module 
shall be disabled by Link Intime upon expiry of 
aforesaid period. The voting rights of the Members 
for remote e-voting and for e-voting at AGM shall 
be in proportion to the paid up value of their shares 
in the equity share capital of the Company as at 
close of business hours on Cut-off date.
	
d)	 The Members who have cast their vote by remote 
e-voting prior to the AGM may also attend the AGM 
through VC/ OAVM but shall not be entitled to cast 
their vote again.
	
e)	 Pursuant to the SEBI circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/
CIR/P/2020/242 dated December 9, 2020 on 
‘e-voting facility provided by Listed Companies’, 
Individual shareholders holding securities in demat 
mode can vote through their demat account 
maintained with Depositories and Depository 
Participants (“DP’s”) only. This enables e-voting 
for all individual demat account holders, by way 
of a single login credential, through their demat 
accounts/ websites of Depositories/ DP’s. Demat 
account holders would be able to cast their vote 
without having to register again with the e-voting 
service providers, thereby, not only facilitating 
seamless authentication but also enhancing ease 
and convenience of participating in e-voting 
process.
	
f)	
Members who have not registered/ updated their 
email address are requested to register/ update the 
same (i) in case of shares held in demat mode, as per 
the process advised by concerned DP’s; and (ii) in 
case of shares held in physical mode, by emailing to 
the Link Intime in the prescribed form ISR-1 alongwith 
requisite 
forms 
at 
enotices@linkintime.co.in 
or vishal.kumar@linkintime.co.in. Members may 
also refer to the FAQs available on the website of 
the Company at paytm.com/investor-relations/faqs.
	
	
The Company has additionally provided the 
facility to the members to temporarily update 
their email address by accessing the link https://
web.linkintime.co.in/EmailReg/Email_Register.html 
for the limited purposes of receiving shareholder 
communications, including the Annual Report and 
the Notice.
06
Notice

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 7
Type of shareholders
Login Method
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with 
NSDL
•	
If you are already registered for NSDL IDeAS facility, please visit the e-Services 
website of NSDL.
•	
Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com either 
on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-Services is 
launched, click on the ‘Beneficial Owner’ icon under ‘Login’ which is available 
under ‘IDeAS’ section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your user ID 
and Password.
•	
After successful authentication, you will be able to see e-voting services. Click 
on ‘Access to e-voting’ under e-voting services and you will be able to see 
e-voting page. Click on Company name or e-voting service provider i.e. Link 
Intime name and you will be re-directed to ‘InstaVote’ website for casting your 
vote during the remote e-voting period.
•	
If the user is not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available 
at https:// eservices.nsdl.com. Select ‘Register Online for IDeAS’ Portal or click 
at https://eservices. nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp.
•	
Visit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following 
URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com either on a personal computer or on 
a mobile. Once the home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the 
icon ‘Login’ which is available under ‘Shareholder/ Member’ section. A new 
screen will open. You will have to enter your user ID (i.e. your sixteen-digit 
demat account number held with NSDL), Password/ OTP and a Verification 
Code as shown on the screen. After successful authentication, you will be 
redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-voting page. Click 
on Company name or e-voting service provider name i.e. Link Intime and you 
will be redirected to ‘InstaVote’ website for casting your vote during the remote 
e-voting period. 
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with 
CDSL
•	
Existing user of who have opted for Easi/ Easiest, they can login through their 
user ID and password. Option will be made available to reach e-voting page 
without any further authentication. 
•	
The URL for users to login to Easi/ Easiest are https://web.cdslindia.com/
myeasi/home/login or www.cdslindia.com and click on New System Myeasi.
•	
After successful login of Easi/ Easiest the user will be also able to see the 
e-voting Menu. The Menu will have links of e-voting service provider i.e. Link 
Intime. Click on Link Intime and you will be redirected to ‘InstaVote’ website for 
casting your vote during the remote e-voting period.
•	
If the user is not registered for Easi/ Easiest, option to register is available at 
https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasi/Registration/EasiRegistration. 
•	
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-voting page by providing demat 
Account Number and PAN No. from a link in www.cdslindia.com home page. 
The system will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile and 
email as recorded in the demat Account. After successful authentication, user 
will be provided links for the respective electronic Service Provider i.e. Link 
Intime. Click on Link Intime and you will be redirected to ‘InstaVote’ website for 
casting your vote during the remote e-voting period.
Individual Shareholders (holding 
securities in demat mode) and 
login through their depository 
participants
•	
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode can login using 
the login credentials of demat account through Depository Participant (“DP”) 
registered with NSDL/ CDSL for e-voting facility.
•	
Once login, you will be able to see e-voting option. Once you click on e-voting 
option, you will be redirected to NSDL/ CDSL Depository site after successful 
authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. Click on Company name 
or e-Voting service provider name i.e. Link Intime and you will be redirected to 
e-voting service provider name i.e. Link Intime and you will be redirected to 
‘InstaVote’ website for casting vote during the remote e-voting period.
	
Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat/ physical mode and Institutional shareholders is 
given below:
07
Notice

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 8
Type of shareholders
Login Method
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in Physical mode/ 
Non-Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in demat mode
•	
Open the internet browser and launch the URL: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in. 
	
1.	 Click on ‘Sign Up’ under ‘shareholder’ tab and register with your following 
details
	
	
a)	 User ID: Shareholders holding shares in physical form shall provide 
Event no. and folio number registered with the Company. Shareholders 
holding shares in NSDL demat account shall provide 8 Character DP 
ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID; Shareholders holding shares in CDSL 
demat account shall provide 16 Digit Beneficiary ID.
	
	
b)	 PAN: Enter your 10-digit Permanent Account Number (PAN) (Members 
who have not updated their PAN with the DP/ Company shall use the 
sequence number provided, if applicable.
	
	
c)	 DOB/ DOI: Enter the Date of Birth (DOB)/ Date of Incorporation (DOI) 
(As recorded with DP/ Company - in DD/MM/YYYY format).
	
	
d)	 Bank Account Number: Enter Bank Account Number (last four digits), 
as recorded with DP/ Company.
	
2.	 Shareholders/ members holding shares in physical form but have 
not recorded ‘C’ and ‘D’, shall provide their Folio number in ‘D’ above. 
Shareholders holding shares in NSDL form, shall provide ‘D’ above.
	
3.	 Set the password of your choice (The password should contain minimum 8 
characters, at least one special Character (@!#$&*), at least one numeral, 
at least one alphabet and at least one capital letter).
	
4.	 Click ‘confirm’ (Your password is now generated).
•	
Click on ‘Login’ under ‘Shareholder’ tab.
•	
Enter user ID, Password and Image Verification (Captcha) Code and click on 
‘Submit’.
•	
After successful login, you will be able to see the notification for e-voting. 
Select ‘View’ icon.
•	
e-voting page will appear.
•	
Refer the resolution description and cast your vote by selecting your desired 
option ‘Favour/ Against’ (If you wish to view the entire resolution details, click 
on the ‘view resolution’ file link).
•	
After selecting the desired option i.e. Favour/ Against, click on ‘Submit’. A 
confirmation box will be displayed. If you wish to confirm your vote, click on ‘Yes’, 
else to change your vote, click on ‘No’ and accordingly modify your vote.
Institutional shareholders
•	
Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than Individuals, HUF’s, NRI’s etc.) and 
Custodians are required to log on the e-voting system of Link Intime at https://
instavote.linkintime.co.in and register themselves as ‘Custodian/ Mutual Fund/ 
Corporate Body’. They are also required to upload a scanned certified true copy 
of the board resolution/ authority letter/ power of attorney etc. together with 
attested specimen signature of the duly authorised representative(s) in PDF 
format in the ‘Custodian/ Mutual Fund/ Corporate Body’ login for the Scrutinizer 
to verify the same.
Individual Shareholders holding
securities in Physical mode have 
forgotten the password
1.	 Click on ‘Login’ under ‘Shareholder’ tab and further Click ‘forgot password?’.
2.	 Enter user ID, select Mode and Enter Image Verification (Captcha) Code and Click 
on ‘Submit’.
3.	 In case shareholders/ members is having valid email address, Password will be sent 
to his/ her registered email address.
4.	 Shareholders/ members can set the password of his/ her choice by providing the 
information about the particulars of the Security Question and Answer, PAN, DOB/ 
DOI, Bank Account Number (last four digits) etc. as mentioned above.
5.	 The password should contain minimum 8 characters, at least one special character 
(@!#$&*), at least one numeral, at least one alphabet and at least one capital letter.
08
Notice

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 9
Type of shareholders
Login Method
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with 
NSDL/ CDSL have forgotten the 
password
•	
Shareholders/ members who are unable to retrieve user ID/ Password 
are advised to use Forget user ID and Forget Password option available at 
abovementioned depository/ DP’s website.
1.	 It is strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person 
and take utmost care to keep your password confidential.
2.	 For shareholders/ members holding shares in physical form, the details can be 
used only for voting on the resolutions contained in this Notice.
3.	 During the voting period, shareholders/ members can login any number of time 
till they have voted on the resolution(s) for a particular ‘Event’.
Type of shareholders
Login Method
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with 
NSDL 
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by 
sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at toll free no.: 1800 1020 990 and 
1800 22 44 30 
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with 
CDSL 
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by sending 
a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at 022- 23058738 or  
22- 23058542-43. 
10.	Helpdesk 
a)	
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode:
	
In case shareholders/ members holding securities in demat mode have any technical issues related to login through 
Depository i.e. NSDL/ CDSL, they may contact the respective helpdesk given below:
b)	 Individual Shareholders holding securities in physical 
mode/ Institutional shareholders:
	
Shareholders facing any technical issue in login may 
contact Link Intime ‘Instavote’ helpdesk by sending a 
request at enotices@linkintime.co.in or contact on: - 
Tel: 022 – 4918 6000.
11.	 The facility for joining the AGM through VC/ OAVM shall 
open for the Members 15 minutes before the scheduled 
time of the commencement of the AGM. 
12.	 The facility of participation at the AGM through VC/ 
OAVM will be made available on first-come-first 
served basis. This will not apply to large Shareholders 
(Shareholders holding 2% or more shareholding) and 
Institutional Investors who are allowed to attend the 
AGM without any restriction on account of first come 
first served basis. Institutional Investors are encouraged 
to attend and vote at the AGM.
13.	Process and manner for attending the AGM 
through InstaMeet:
	
a)	
Open the internet browser and launch the URL: 
https://instameet.linkintime.co.in. 
	
b)	 Select the ‘Company’ and ‘Event Date’ and register 
with your following details: - 
	
	
a)	
Demat Account No. or Folio No: Enter your 16 
digit Demat Account No. or Folio No
	
	
	
i)	
Shareholders/ members holding shares in 
CDSL demat account shall provide 16 Digit 
Beneficiary ID.
	
	
	
ii)	
Shareholders/ members holding shares 
in NSDL demat account shall provide 8 
Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID.
	
	
	
iii)	 Shareholders/ members holding shares in 
physical form shall provide Folio Number 
registered with the Company.
	
	
b)	 PAN: 
Enter 
10-digit 
Permanent 
Account 
Number (PAN) (Members who have not 
updated their PAN with the DP/ Company shall 
use the sequence number provided to you, if 
applicable. 
	
	
c)	
Mobile No.: Enter your mobile number. 
	
	
d)	 Email ID: Enter your email ID, as recorded with 
your DP/ Company.
	
	
c)	
Click ‘Go to Meeting’ (you are now registered 
for InstaMeet and your attendance is marked 
for the meeting).
	
	
d)	 Shareholders/ Members are encouraged to 
join the Meeting through Tablets/ Laptops 
connected through broadband for better 
experience.
	
	
e)	 Shareholders/ Members are required to use 
Internet with a good speed (preferably 2 MBPS 
09
Notice

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 10
download stream) to avoid any disturbance 
during the meeting.
	
	
f)	
Please note that Shareholders/ Members 
connecting from Mobile Devices or Tablets 
or through Laptops connecting via Mobile 
Hotspot may experience Audio/ Visual loss due 
to fluctuation in their network. It is therefore 
recommended to use stable Wi-Fi or LAN 
connection to mitigate any kind of glitches.
14.	Instructions for Shareholders to speak during 
the AGM:
	
a)	
To ensure smooth transmission and co-ordination 
during the Q&A Session, the Company is providing 
the facility of speaker registration.
	
b)	 Members, who would like to speak during the 
AGM, need to register their request on or before 
August 16, 2022 by 5:00 P.M. (IST), as a speaker 
with the Company by sending their request from 
their registered email address mentioning their 
name, DP ID and Client ID number/ folio number 
and mobile number, by sending an email to the 
Company at compliance.officer@paytm.com. Only 
those members who are registered as speaker will 
be allowed to express their views or ask questions 
at the AGM.
	
c)	
Members can also submit their questions in 
advance with regard to the accounts or any other 
matter to be placed at the AGM by sending an email 
to the Company at compliance.officer@paytm.
com, by mentioning their name, DP ID Client ID/ 
folio number, mobile number on or before Tuesday, 
August 16, 2022.
	
d)	 Members can also send their video by sending an 
email at compliance.officer@paytm.com. 
	
e)	 Members will get confirmation on first cum first 
basis depending upon the provision made by the 
Company and will receive ‘speaking serial number’ 
once they mark attendance for the meeting. The 
maximum duration of the video should be three 
minutes and at the AGM, such questions will be 
replied by the Company suitably. 
Note:
• 
The Company reserves the right to restrict the number 
of questions and number of speakers, depending upon 
the availability of time, for smooth conduct of the AGM.
• 
Shareholders are requested to speak only when 
moderator of the meeting/ management will announce 
the name and serial number for speaking. 
15.	Instructions for Shareholders to Vote during 
the AGM through InstaMeet:
	
a)	
The e-voting window shall be activated upon 
instructions of the Chairman of the Meeting during 
the AGM.
	
b)	 E-voting during the AGM is integrated with the VC 
platform and no separate login is required for the 
same.
	
c)	
Once the e-voting is activated by the scrutinizer/ 
moderator during the meeting, members who 
have not exercised their vote through the remote 
e-voting and are otherwise not barred from doing 
so, can cast the vote as under:
	
	
1.	
On the Shareholders VC page, click on the link 
for e-voting ‘Cast your vote’.
	
	
2.	
Enter 16 digit Demat Account No./ Folio No. 
and OTP (received on the registered mobile 
number/ registered email ID) received during 
registration for InstaMeet and click on 'Submit'. 
	
	
3.	
After successful login, you will see ‘resolution 
Description’ and against the same the option 
‘Favour/ Against’ for voting. 
	
	
4.	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate option 
i.e. ‘Favour/ Against’ as desired. Enter the 
number of shares (which represents no. of 
votes) as on the Cut-off date under ‘Favour/ 
Against'.
	
	
5.	
After selecting the appropriate option i.e. 
Favour/ Against as desired and you have 
decided to vote, click on ‘Save’. A confirmation 
box will be displayed. If you wish to confirm 
your vote, click on ‘Confirm’, else to change 
your vote, click on ‘Back’ and accordingly 
modify your vote. 
	
	
6.	
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, 
you will not be allowed to modify or change 
your vote subsequently.
	
d)	 Members who have voted through remote e-voting 
prior to the AGM will be eligible to attend/ participate 
in the AGM through InstaMeet. However, they will 
not be eligible to vote again during the meeting.
	
e)	 In case of joint holders, the Member whose name 
appears as the first holder in the order of names as 
per the Register of Members of the Company/ DP’s 
will be entitled to vote during the AGM.
	
	
In case shareholders have any queries regarding 
login/ e-voting at the AGM, they may send an email 
to instameet@linkintime.co.in or contact on: - Tel: 
022-49186175.
16.	Scrutinizer for e-voting and Declaration of 
Results:
	
a)	
The Board of Directors of the Company has 
appointed Mr. Ankit Singhi (C.P. No. 16274), 
Company Secretary in Practice and Partner of 
PI & Associates, Company Secretaries, as the 
Scrutinizer to scrutinize the e-voting during the 
AGM and remote e-voting process in a fair and 
10
Notice

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 11
transparent manner and he has communicated his 
willingness to be appointed and will be available for 
the said purpose.
	
b)	 The Scrutinizer, immediately after the conclusion of 
voting at the AGM, unblock the votes cast through 
e-voting (votes cast through remote e-voting and 
votes cast during the AGM) and shall, within two 
working days from conclusion of the AGM, make a 
consolidated scrutinizer’s report of the votes cast 
in favour or against, if any, and submit the same to 
the Chairman of the meeting or a person authorised 
by him in writing, who shall countersign the same.
	
c)	
The Chairman or the authorized person shall declare 
the results. The results declared shall be available 
on the website of the Company www.paytm.com/
investor-relations/agm and on the website of Link 
Intime 
at 
https://instavote.linkintime.co.in 
and 
shall also be displayed on the notice board at the 
registered and corporate office of the Company. 
The results shall simultaneously be communicated 
to the Stock Exchanges. 
	
d)	 The resolutions will be deemed to be passed on 
the date of AGM, i.e. August 19, 2022, subject to 
receipt of the requisite number of votes in favour of 
the resolutions.
17.	 The recorded transcript of the AGM shall also be 
made available on the website of the Company at  
www.paytm.com/investor-relations/agm as soon as 
possible after the conclusion of AGM.
18.	 SEBI has vide circular dated November 3, 2021 and 
December 14, 2021, mandated furnishing of PAN, KYC 
and Nomination by Members holding shares in physical 
form. In view of the same, it may be noted that any 
service request can be processed only after the folio 
is PAN, KYC and Nomination compliant. The concerned 
shareholders are requested to furnish the requisite 
documents/ information at the earliest. Non-availability 
of the same on or after April 1, 2023 will result in 
freezing of the folios of such shareholders pursuant 
to the aforesaid SEBI circular. These frozen folios will 
be referred by the RTA/ Company to the administering 
authority under the Benami Transactions (Prohibitions) 
Act, 1988 and/ or Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 
2002, after December 31, 2025.
	
Further, SEBI has vide its circulars dated January 
24, 2022 and January 25, 2022 mandated listed 
companies to issue securities in demat form only while 
processing service requests viz. Issue of duplicate 
securities certificate, claim from Unclaimed Suspense 
Account, Renewal/ Exchange of securities certificate, 
endorsement, sub-division/ splitting of securities 
certificate, consolidation of securities certificates/ 
folios, transmission and transposition. Accordingly, 
Members are requested to make service requests in 
prescribed Form ISR–4, as available in the FAQs section 
on the website of the Company at paytm.com/investor-
relations/faqs.
19.	 SEBI has mandated the submission of PAN by every 
participant in the securities market. Members holding 
shares in dematerialised form are therefore requested 
to submit their PAN to the DP’s with whom they are 
maintaining their dematerialised accounts.
20.	 Pursuant to the provisions of Section 72 of the Act 
read with the rules made thereunder, Members 
holding shares in a single name may avail the facility 
of nomination in respect of the shares held by them. 
Members holding shares in physical form may avail this 
facility by sending a nomination in the prescribed Form 
No. SH-13 to the RTA. Further, in terms of SEBI circular 
dated February 24, 2022, all existing shareholders 
holding shares in trading and demat accounts shall 
provide their choice of nomination on or before March 
31, 2023, failing which such trading accounts shall be 
frozen for trading and demat accounts shall be frozen 
for debits. Accordingly, Members are urged to update 
their nomination details for their respective accounts 
before the aforementioned date by contacting their 
respective DP’s. 
21.	 Members may note that, as mandated by SEBI, 
effective April 1, 2019, the Company cannot process 
any request for transfer of securities in physical mode, 
except transmission or transposition of securities. Only 
securities held in dematerialized form can be transferred. 
Hence, Members are requested to dematerialize their 
shares if held in physical form.
22.	 At the 18th Annual General Meeting held on September 
28, 2018, the members approved the appointment of 
M/s. Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP, 
(Registration no. 012754N/N500016) as Statutory 
Auditors of the Company to hold office for a period of 
five years from the conclusion of that Annual General 
Meeting till the conclusion of 23rd Annual General 
Meeting to be held in financial year 2023-24, subject 
to ratification of their appointment by members at 
every Annual General Meeting. The requirement to 
place the matter relating to appointment of auditors for 
ratification by members at every AGM has been done 
away by the Companies (Amendment) Act, 2017 with 
effect from May 7, 2018. Accordingly, no resolution 
is being proposed for ratification of appointment of 
statutory auditors at this AGM.
23.	Transfer to Investor Education and Protection 
Fund
 
a) Transfer of Unclaimed Dividend:
	
	
The Company has not transferred any amount 
to the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
(“IEPF”), being the unclaimed/ unpaid dividend for 
any of the financial years.
11
Notice

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 12
 
b) Transfer of Unclaimed Matured Fixed Deposits 
and Interest accrued thereon:
	
	
The Company does not have any Fixed Deposits.
 
c) Transfer of Shares:
	
	
Adhering to the various requirements set out in the 
IEPF Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and 
Refund) Rules, 2016, as amended, the Company has 
not transferred any Equity Shares of the Company 
during the financial year 2021-22 to the IEPF 
Authority in respect of which dividend had remained 
unpaid or unclaimed for seven consecutive years.
 
d) Details of unclaimed amounts on the Company’s 
website:
	
	
Since there was no unpaid and unclaimed 
dividend amounts lying with the Company, the 
Company was not required to upload any such 
details on its website or on the website of the 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs at the web-link:  
http://www.iepf.gov.in.
	
	
In case of any queries or issues regarding remote 
e-voting or attending the AGM, Members may 
refer the (i) Frequently Asked Questions (‘FAQs’); 
or (ii) Instavote e-voting manual, available under 
help section at https://instavote.linkintime.co.in, 
or contact Mr. Rajiv Ranjan, AVP -, e-voting, Link 
Intime, C-101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli 
(West), Mumbai 400 083, Maharashtra, India or 
Call at :- Tel : 022 – 49186000 or write an email to 
enotices@linkintime.co.in.
12
Notice

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 13
Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013
Item No. 3 and 4
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma has been a Founder Director 
of the Company since inception and was re-appointed 
as Managing Director of the Company with effect from 
December 19, 2017 for a period of five (5) years pursuant 
to the resolution passed by the members at 17th Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company held on August 
31, 2017. His current term as Managing Director will expire 
on December 18, 2022 and is due for re-appointment.
Over these years, Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma has been 
instrumental in the growth of the Company. The Board of 
Directors (“Board”) is of the opinion that the leadership and 
guidance of Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma is required by the 
Company and it will be in the best interest of the Company 
and its stakeholders that Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma continues 
as Managing Director of the Company.
The Board, at its meeting held on May 20, 2022, based 
on the recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, approved the re-appointment of Mr. Vijay 
Shekhar Sharma as Managing Director of the Company 
designated as “Managing Director and Chief Executive 
Officer” for a further term of five (5) years i.e. from December 
19, 2022 to December 18, 2027 subject to the approval of 
members of the Company. 
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma is neither disqualified from being 
appointed as a Director in terms of Section 164(2) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) nor debarred from holding 
the office of director by virtue of any order by Securities 
Exchange Board of India or any other such authority, and 
has given all the necessary declarations and confirmation 
including his consent to be re-appointed as Managing 
Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
In terms of the provisions of Sections 196, Schedule V of 
the Act and the Articles of Association of the Company, re-
appointment of the Managing Director requires approval of 
the members by way of an ordinary resolution.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 196(4), 197, 198 and 
Schedule V of the Act relating to payment of managerial 
remuneration in case of absence of profits and/ or 
inadequacy of profits, the Company may pay remuneration 
over and above the ceiling limit as specified therein, provided 
the members’ approval by way of a special resolution has 
been obtained for payment of minimum remuneration for 
a period not exceeding three (3) financial years, subject 
to compliance with disclosure requirements and other 
conditions stated therein. In view of the foregoing factors, 
the approval of the members of the Company is being 
sought for payment of remuneration to Mr. Vijay Shekhar 
Sharma, for a term of three (3) financial years (“FY”), i.e. 
for FY 2022 - 23, FY 2023 - 24 and FY 2024 - 25, as may 
be permitted under applicable laws, in case of absence of 
profits and / or inadequacy of profits of the Company.
The details of the proposed remuneration, as approved by 
the Board at its meeting held on May 20, 2022 and based 
on the recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, to be paid to Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma as 
Managing Director designated as “Managing Director and 
Chief Executive Officer” is as under:
1.	
Remuneration: ₹ 40,000,000 p.a. (including Company 
leased accommodation).
2.	
Perquisites: As per Company’s policies or as approved 
by the Board from time to time, provided however that 
aggregate value of the perquisites shall not exceed 
25% of the remuneration mentioned in clause 1 above, 
which, inter-alia, will include the following:
	
(a)	 Two vehicles and related expenses, on actuals 
(including fuel expenses & toll charges, vehicles 
insurance, maintenance expenses, driver's salary 
(including overtime & night charges of drivers))
	
(b)	 Utility and other expenses in relation to the 
Company 
leased 
accommodation 
(including 
electricity, water, maintenance etc.)
	
(c)	 Club subscription
3.	
Statutory Benefits and other Company Benefits: As 
per the Company’s policy, from time to time including 
but not limited to contribution to provident fund, gratuity 
and leave encashment as per applicable Company’s 
policy, medical insurance for self and family. 
4.	
Reimbursements: Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma shall also 
be entitled to reimbursement of all legitimate expenses 
incurred by him in performance of his professional 
duties including but not limited to communication, 
travel and business entertainment expenses (such 
as reimbursements related to mobile bill, data card 
bill, internet bills, residential landline telephones and 
network line for business use, meals, professional 
membership fee and business entertainment or 
any other out of pocket expenses related to official 
business).   
5.	
Minimum Remuneration
	
In the event of absence of profits and/ or inadequacy 
of profits in any financial year during of tenure of  
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Managing Director designated 
as “Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer”, the 
payment of above remuneration, perquisites, statutory 
benefits and other Company benefits, and stated 
reimbursements shall be made notwithstanding that 
such remuneration may exceed the limits prescribed 
under Section 197 read with Schedule V of the 
Companies Act, 2013 or under the provisions of SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 ("SEBI Listing Regulations") or under 
any other laws for the time being in force, if any. 
13
Notice

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 14
In addition to the above, Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma was 
granted 21,000,000 stock options, in previous financial year, 
as approved by the members of the Company at their Extra-
ordinary General Meeting held on October 04, 2021. These 
grants were made under One 97 Employees Stock Option 
Scheme 2019 and are subject to achievement of certain 
milestones.   
Brief profile of Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma form part of this 
notice. The terms as set out in the resolution and explanatory 
statement may be treated as an abstract of the terms of 
employment pursuant to Section 190 of the Act. 
The information as required to be disclosed under paragraph 
(iv) of the second proviso of Paragraph B of Section II of Part 
II of Schedule V to the Act, Secretarial Standard-2 issued by 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India and SEBI Listing 
Regulations, 2015 forms part of this Notice.
The Company has not defaulted in payment of dues to 
any bank or public financial institution or non-convertible 
debenture holders or other secured creditor, if any.
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out at 
item no. 3 and Special Resolution set out at item no. 4 of the 
Notice for approval by the members. 
Save and except Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma and his relatives 
to the extent of their shareholding in the Company, if any, 
none of the other Directors / Key Managerial Personnel 
and their relatives are in any way, concerned or interested, 
financially or otherwise, in the resolution set out in item no. 
3 and 4 of the Notice.
Item No. 5 and 6
Mr. Madhur Deora has been employed with the Company 
since October 3, 2016. The Board of Directors (“Board”) of 
the Company at its meeting held on December 30, 2021, on 
the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and Audit Committee, had appointed Mr. Madhur 
Deora as Chief Financial Officer of the Company with effect 
from January 1, 2022.
Mr. Madhur Deora plays a significant leadership role in the 
Company. His in-depth knowledge of the Company and 
strong technical and analytical skills and expertise render 
him fit to lead the Corporate Finance and ancillary functions 
of the Company. He has been instrumental in devising the 
financial and operational strategy critical for the Company, 
investor relations, assisting with a commercial roadmap 
to realize the long term vision of the organization and 
driving overall governance. Prior to joining the Company, 
he was employed with Citigroup Global Markets India 
Private Limited. He holds a Bachelor's degree of Science 
in Economics from the Wharton School of the University of 
Pennsylvania. 
The Board, at its meeting held on May 20, 2022, based 
on the recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, approved the appointment of Mr. Madhur Deora 
as an additional director to hold the office up to the date 
of this (22nd) Annual General Meeting (“AGM”). Further, the 
Board approved the appointment of Mr. Madhur Deora 
as Whole-time Director of the Company designated as 
“Executive Director, President and Group Chief Financial 
Officer”, for a term of five (5) years with effect from May 20, 
2022 to May 19, 2027, liable to retire by rotation, subject to 
the approval of the members of the Company.
Mr. Madhur Deora is neither disqualified from being 
appointed as a Director in terms of Section 164(2) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) nor debarred from holding 
the office of director by virtue of any order by Securities 
Exchange Board of India or any other such authority, and 
has given all the necessary declarations and confirmation 
including his consent to be appointed as Whole-time 
Director of the Company.
In terms of the provisions of Sections 196, Schedule V of 
the Act and the Articles of Association of the Company, 
appointment of the Whole-time Director requires approval 
of the members by way of an ordinary resolution.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 196(4), 197, 198 and 
Schedule V of the Act relating to payment of managerial 
remuneration in case of absence of profits and/ or 
inadequacy of profits, the Company may pay remuneration 
over and above the ceiling limit as specified therein, provided 
the members’ approval by way of a special resolution has 
been obtained for payment of minimum remuneration, 
subject to compliance with disclosure requirements and 
other conditions stated therein. In view of the foregoing 
factors, the approval of the members of the Company is 
being sought for payment of remuneration to Mr. Madhur 
Deora, for the period commencing from May 20, 2022 to 
March 31, 2023, as may be permitted under applicable laws, 
in case of absence of profits and / or inadequacy of profits 
of the Company.
The details of proposed remuneration, as approved by 
the Board at its meeting held on May 20, 2022 based on 
the recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, to be paid to Mr. Madhur Deora as Whole-time 
Director designated as "Executive Director, President and 
Group Chief Financial Officer" of the Company is as under:
1.	
Remuneration: ₹ 38,841,000 per annum
2.	
Perquisites: As per Company’s policy(ies) 
3.	
Stock Options: Mr. Madhur Deora has been granted 
55,556 stock options on May 1, 2022 under One 97 
Employees Stock Option Scheme 2019 of the Company.
4.	
Statutory Benefits and other Company benefits: As 
per the Company’s policy, from time to time, including 
but not limited to contribution to provident fund, 
gratuity, leave encashment, medical insurance for self 
and family. 
5.	
Reimbursements: Mr. Madhur Deora shall also be 
entitled to reimbursement of all legitimate expenses 
incurred by him in performance of his professional duties 
14
Notice

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 15
including but not limited to communication and travel 
expenses (including but not limited to reimbursements 
related to mobile bill, data card bill, internet bills, etc. 
as per Company policy, travel expenses, meal expenses 
etc.). Such reimbursement will not form part of his 
remuneration.
6.	
Minimum Remuneration
	
In the event of absence of profits and/ or inadequacy 
of profits in any financial year during the tenure of 
Mr. Madhur Deora as Whole-time Director designated 
as “Executive Director, President and Group Chief 
Financial Officer”, the payment of above remuneration, 
perquisites, statutory benefits and other Company 
benefits, and stated reimbursements shall be made 
notwithstanding that such remuneration may exceed the 
limits prescribed under Section 197 read with Schedule 
V of the Companies Act, 2013 or under the provisions of 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 ("SEBI Listing Regulations") or under 
any other laws for the time being in force, if any.
	
In addition to the above, Mr. Madhur Deora has been 
granted stock options, in previous financial years, under 
One 97 Employees Stock Option Scheme 2008 and One 
97 Employees Stock Option Scheme 2019, as approved 
by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee/ 
Board of the Company, from time to time.
	
Brief profile of Mr. Madhur Deora form part of with 
this Notice. The terms as set out in the resolution and 
explanatory statement may be treated as an abstract of 
the terms of employment pursuant to Section 190 of the 
Act.
	
The information as required to be disclosed under 
paragraph (iv) of the second proviso of Paragraph B of 
Section II of Part II of Schedule V to the Act, Secretarial 
Standard-2 issued by Institute of Company Secretaries 
of India and SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015 forms part of 
this Notice.
	
The Company has not defaulted in payment of dues to 
any bank or public financial institution or non-convertible 
debenture holders or other secured creditor, if any.
	
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out 
at item no. 5 and Special Resolution set out at item no. 
6 of the Notice for approval by the members. 
	
Save and except Mr. Madhur Deora and his relatives 
to the extent of their shareholding in the Company, 
if any, none of the other Directors / Key Managerial 
Personnel and their relatives are in any way, concerned 
or interested, financially or otherwise, in the resolutions 
set out in item no. 5 and 6 of the Notice.
Item No. 7
As per Section 135 of the Companies Act 2013 (“Act”), every 
company is required to spend, in every financial year, at 
least 2% of its average net profits made during three (3) 
immediately preceding financial years in pursuance to the 
Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) Policy. The average 
net profit of the Company made during three (3) immediately 
preceding financial years is negative and hence, the 
Company is not statutorily required to spend any amount on 
CSR activities for the financial year 2021-22.
Pursuant to the provisions of section 181 of the Act, the 
Board of directors ("Board")  may contribute to bona fide 
charitable and other funds, in any financial year, up to 5% of 
its average net profits for the three immediately preceding 
financial years. Contribution to such funds in any financial 
year can exceed 5% of the average net profits for the three 
immediately preceding financial years, with prior approval of 
the members of the Company in general meeting.
The Company may contribute, from time to time, to bona 
fide charitable, social, benevolent and other funds, body, 
university, institute, society, trust, not-for-profit entities, 
NGOs including Paytm Foundation for carrying out one or 
more of the Corporate Social Responsibility activities listed 
in Schedule VII of the Act or any other charitable activities, 
as the Board may deem fit.
In view of the above, it is proposed to obtain authorisation 
of the members of the Company to contribute towards 
aforesaid purposes, for an aggregate amount of ₹ 10 
Crores (Rupees Ten Crores only) per annum, in one of more 
tranches, for a period of three (3) financial years (“FY”) i.e. 
for FY 2022-23, FY 2023-24 and FY 2024-25.
The Board of Directors recommends the Ordinary Resolution 
set out at item no. 7 of the Notice for approval by the 
members. 
None of the Directors / Key Managerial Personnel and their 
relatives are in any way, concerned or interested, financially or 
otherwise, in the resolution set out in item no. 7 of the Notice.
Registered Office:	
By order of the Board of the Directors
First Floor, Devika Tower,	
For One 97 Communications Limited
Nehru Place, New Delhi - 110 019	
 
CIN: L72200DL2000PLC108985	
E-mail id: compliance.officer@paytm.com	
Amit Khera
	
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No.: A10827 
One Skymark, Tower - D, Plot No. H - 10B,
Date: May 20, 2022 	
Sector - 98, Noida - 201304, Uttar Pradesh 
15
Notice

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 16
The statement containing additional information as required under Schedule V of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) with respect to Item no. 3 to 6
I.	
General Information
	
(a)	 Nature of industry: 
	
	
One 97 Communications Limited was incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 having its registered office at 
First Floor, Devika Tower, Nehru Place, New Delhi 110019.
	
	
The Company owns and operates the brand “Paytm”. Paytm is India's payment Super App offering consumers and 
merchants most comprehensive payment services. Pioneer of mobile QR payments revolution in India, Paytm’s 
mission is to bring half a billion Indians into the mainstream economy through technology-led financial services. 
Paytm enables commerce for small merchants and distributes various financial services offerings to its consumers 
and merchants in partnership with financial institutions.
	
(b)	 Date or expected date of commencement of commercial production: 
	
	
The Company commenced business from the date of its incorporation on December 22, 2000.
	
(c)	 In case of new companies, expected date of commencement of activities as per project approved by financial 
institutions appearing in the prospectus
	
	
Not Applicable
	
(d)	 Financial performance based on given indicators
(Amounts in ₹ Million)
Particulars
Consolidated
 Standalone
 Year ended
 Year ended
2021-22
2020-21
2021-22
2020-21
Total income
52,643                 31,868 
                41,754 
30,420 
Total expenses
                76,011                 47,830                 64,561 
45,369 
Contribution Profit
                14,981 
3,625 
                12,691 
2,595 
Contribution Margin %
30.10%
12.90%
32.6%
9.7%
EBITDA (Before ESOP expense)
               (15,177)
(16,548)
(15,344)
(15,926)
Margin %
-30.50%
-59.00%
-39.4%
-59.7%
Net Profit/(Loss)
(23,964)
               (17,010)
(23,251)
(15,601)
Paid-up Capital
649 
605 
649 
605 
Reserves & Surplus
             140,867                 64,743 
             136,476 
69,240 
	
(e)	 Foreign investments or collaborations, if any.
	
	
The Company has not entered into any material 
foreign collaboration during the previous three 
financial years. The foreign investors, mainly 
comprising of FIIs and NRIs, are on account of 
issuances of securities and/or secondary market 
purchases, from time to time. As on March 31, 
2022, the aggregate foreign shareholding in the 
Company was approx. 75.91%.
II.	 Information about the appointee(s):
	
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma
	
a)	
Background details, job profile and suitability: 
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma is an Indian technology 
entrepreneur who has played an instrumental role 
in revolutionizing the digital payments and financial 
services landscape in India, as the Chairman, 
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 
of the Company and its consumer brand Paytm. 
Under his guidance, Paytm is on a mission to bring 
half a billion Indians into the mainstream economy.
	
b)	
Past Remuneration: ₹ 40,000,000 p.a.
	
c)	
Remuneration proposed: As mentioned in the 
explanatory statement above.
	
d)	
Recognition or awards: He has featured in '2017 
Time 100', the list of 'hundred most influential 
people in the world' by Time magazine. Vijay has 
also been bestowed with multiple industry honours 
such as the 'Entrepreneur of the Year' award in 2018 
by All India Management Association, 'Entrepreneur 
of the Year' at ET Awards for Corporate Excellence' 
in 2016 and 'GQ Man of the Year' in 2016.
16
Notice

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 17
	
e)	
Comparative remuneration profile with respect 
to industry, size of the Company, profile of the 
position and person (in case of expatriates 
the relevant details would be with respect to 
the country of origin): Considering the size of 
the Company, the profile of Mr. Vijay Shekhar 
Sharma, his responsibilities and the industry 
benchmarks, the remuneration proposed is in line 
with remuneration drawn for similar positions in 
companies of similar scale and size.
	
f)	
Pecuniary relationship directly or indirectly with 
the company, or relationship with the managerial 
personnel or other director, if any: Mr. Vijay Shekhar 
Sharma has no pecuniary relationship with the 
Company or its Key Managerial Personnel other than 
his remuneration in the capacity of the Managing 
Director and Chief Executive Officer. As on date 
of this notice, he holds 57,673,032 equity Shares 
(8.89%) in the Company in his personal capacity.
	
Mr. Madhur Deora
	
a)	
Background details, job profile and suitability: 
Mr. Madhur Deora holds a bachelor's degree of 
science in economics from the Wharton School of 
the University of Pennsylvania. In his present role 
with the Company, he is responsible for devising 
the financial and operational strategy, investor 
relations, assisting with a commercial roadmap 
to realize the long term vision of the organization 
and driving overall governance. He was previously 
associated with Citigroup Global Markets India 
Private Limited.
	
b)	 Past Remuneration: ₹ 36,300,000 p.a.
	
c)	
Remuneration proposed: As mentioned in the 
explanatory statement above.
	
d)	 Recognition or awards: Nil
	
e)	 Comparative remuneration profile with respect 
to industry, size of the Company, profile of the 
position and person (in case of expatriates the 
relevant details would be with respect to the 
country of origin): Considering the size of the 
Company, the profile of Mr. Madhur Deora, his 
responsibilities and the industry benchmarks, the 
remuneration proposed is in line with remuneration 
drawn for similar positions in companies of similar 
scale and size.
	
f)	
Pecuniary relationship directly or indirectly with 
the company, or relationship with the managerial 
personnel or other director, if any: Mr. Madhur 
Deora has no pecuniary relationship with the 
Company or its Key Managerial Personnel other 
than his remuneration in the capacity of the Chief 
Financial Officer/ “Executive Director, President 
and Group Chief Financial Officer”. As on date 
of this notice, he holds 688,394 equity Shares 
(insignificant percentage) of the Company in his 
personal capacity.
III.	 Other Information:
	
a.	
Reason of loss or inadequate profits: 
	
	
The Company has invested in growing and 
strengthening its Paytm ecosystem, including 
through acquisition and retention of consumers 
and merchants and providing them with greater 
access to technology and financial services. In the 
quarter ending March 2022, the average Monthly 
Transacting User (“MTU”) was 70.9 million, an 
increase of 41% y-o-y and number of merchants 
was 26.7 million (as compared to 21.1 million as 
of March 2021). The Company makes substantial 
investments towards marketing and promotions, 
product and engineering talent to build technology 
solutions, expanding sales team, providing devices 
and services to merchants to enable them to service 
and expand their consumer base and strengthening 
technology powered payments platform to provide 
consumers and merchants with a greater access to 
technology and financial services. 
	
b.	
Steps taken or proposed to be taken for 
improvement and expected increase in productivity 
and profits in measurable terms:
	
	
Focus on monetization along with control on costs 
has yielded strong results. The Company has driven 
significant improvement in Payments contribution 
margins, growth of high margin Financial Services, 
and increased margin in Merchant Services 
(Commerce & Cloud) vertical. Paytm ended the 
fiscal year with strong growth across businesses 
and reductions in EBITDA before ESOP cost losses, 
and it puts the Company well on track to achieve 
operating breakeven (EBITDA before ESOP cost) by 
the quarter ending September 2023. 
17
Notice

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 18
Information of Directors being appointed / re-appointment at this AGM pursuant 
to Regulation 36(3) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, in accordance with provisions of Companies Act, 2013 and 
Secretarial Standards, as on the date of Notice
Name of the Director
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma
Mr. Ravi Chandra 
Adusumalli
Mr. Madhur Deora
Directors Identification
Number (DIN)
00466521
00253613
07720350
Date of Birth (Age in years)
July 15, 1978 (43)
January 14, 1976 (46)
September 12, 1978 (43)
Original date of appointment
December 22, 2000
February 16, 2012
May 20, 2022
Qualifications
Bachelor’s degree in electronics 
and communications from the 
Delhi College of Engineering
Bachelor’s degree in 
economics and government 
from Cornell University
Bachelor's degree of 
science in economics from 
the Wharton School of the 
University of Pennsylvania
Experience and expertise in 
specific functional area
Engineering, Technology, 
Design Marketing and General 
Management
Economics, Finance, and rich 
managerial experience
Economics, Finance, 
Investor Relation and rich 
managerial experience
Remuneration Last Drawn
₹ 40,000,000 p.a.
Nil
₹ 36,300,000 p.a.*
Number of Meetings of
Board attended during
the year
As mentioned in Corporate 
Governance Report
As mentioned in Corporate 
Governance Report
Not Applicable
Shareholding (as on the 
date of this Notice) in 
One 97 Communications 
Limited, either directly or as 
beneficial holder
57,673,032 equity shares 
(8.89%)
Nil
688,394 equity shares 
(Negligible)
Relationship with other
Directors / KMPs
None
None
None
Terms and conditions
of appointment/ 
re‑appointment and
remuneration
As per the Nomination, Remuneration and Board Diversity Policy
Listed Companies 
from which the person 
has resigned from the 
directorship in the past three 
year
Nil
Nil
Nil
Directorships held in
other companies in India
•	
One 97 Communications 
Limited
•	
Paytm Payments Bank 
Limited
•	
Paytm General Insurance 
Limited
•	
Paytm Life Insurance Limited
•	
Paytm e-Commerce Private 
Limited
•	
VSS Investco Private Limited
•	
VSS Holdings Private 
Limited
•	
One 97 Communications 
Limited
•	
Paytm E-Commerce 
Private Limited
•	
Le Travenues Technology 
Limited
•	
Tracxn Technologies 
Limited
•	
Capfloat Financial 
Services Private Limited
•	
Urbanclap Technologies 
India Private Limited
•	
One 97 
Communications 
Limited
•	
Paytm Payments 
Services Limited
•	
Paytm Payments Bank 
Limited
•	
Paytm Financial 
Services Limited
•	
Paytm Insuretech 
Private Limited
•	
Paytm Money Limited
18
Notice

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 19
Name of the Director
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma
Mr. Ravi Chandra 
Adusumalli
Mr. Madhur Deora
•	
VSS Networks Private 
Limited
•	
Nextgen Project 
Management Systems 
Private Limited
•	
Rivigo Services Private 
Limited
•	
Paytm First Games 
Private Limited
•	
Mobiquest Mobile 
Technologies Private 
Limited
•	
Orbgen Technologies 
Private Limited
•	
Wasteland 
Entertainment Private 
Limited
•	
Eatgood Technologies 
Private Limited
Membership/ Chairmanship 
of committees’ in companies 
in India
I.	
One 97 Communications 
Limited
	
•	
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee (Chairman)
	
•	
Risk Management 
Committee (Member)
	
•	
IPO Committee 
(Member)
	
•	
Investment Committee 
(Member)
II.	 Paytm Payments Bank 
Limited
	
•	
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee (Member)
I.	
One 97 Communications 
Limited
	
•	
Audit Committee 
(Member)
	
•	
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee (Member)
	
•	
Investment 
Committee (Member)
II.	 Le Travenues Technology 
Limited
	
•	
Audit Committee 
(Member)
	
•	
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee (Member)
	
•	
Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee (Member)
	
•	
Risk Management 
Committee (Member)
	
•	
IPO Committee- 
(Member)
I.	
Paytm Money Limited
	
•	
Audit Committee 
(Chairman)
	
•	
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee 
(Chairman)
II.	 Paytm First Games 
Private Limited
	
•	
Audit Committee 
(Member)
	
•	
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee 
(Member)
* in the capacity of employee/ Chief Financial Officer of the Company 
19
Notice

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 20
Annual Report
FY’22
Paytm
Wallet
Paytm 
Postpaid

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 21
2

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 22
3
Corporate Overview
4 
Corporate 
Information
5 
Board of Directors
6 
Letter from the CEO
8 
Management 
Discussion and 
Analysis
Statutory Reports
21 
Board’s Report
46 
Corporate 
Governance Report
70 
Business 
Responsibility 
Report
Financial Statements
78 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
169 Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Annual Report 
2022
Contents

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 23
4
Corporate Information
Board of Directors 
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma 
Chairman, Managing Director and  
Chief Executive Officer   
Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli  
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Neeraj Arora 
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. Madhur Deora 
Executive Director, President and  
Group Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Douglas Feagin 
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Ashit Ranjit Lilani 
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. Mark Schwartz 
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mrs. Pallavi Shardul Shroff 
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. Amit Khera
Company Secretary & Compliance officer
Statutory Auditors
Price Waterhouse Chartered  
Accountants LLP
Secretarial Auditor
PI & Associates
Company Secretaries
Registered Office
First Floor, Devika Tower, Nehru Place, 
New Delhi -110019, India
Corporate Office
Paytm Corporate Office, 
One Skymark, Tower-D, 
Plot No. H-10B, Sector-98, Noida, Uttar 
Pradesh - 201304, India
Website
www.paytm.com

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 24
5
Board of Directors
Annual Report 
2022
Audit  
Committee
Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee
Risk Management 
Committee
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee
Chairman 
Chairman 
Chairman 
Chairman 
Chairman 
Member  
Member  
Member  
Member  
Member  
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma
Chairman, Managing Director
and Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Ravi Chandra 
Adusumalli
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Douglas Feagin
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Ashit Ranjit Lilani
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
Mr. Mark Schwartz
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
Mrs. Pallavi Shardul 
Shroff
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
Mr. Neeraj Arora
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
Mr. Madhur Deora
Executive Director, 
President and Group 
Chief Financial Officer
Note: Non-Executive Directors in alphabetical order, by last name

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 25
6
Letter to 
Shareholders
Dear Shareholders,
It gives me great pleasure to present Paytm’s annual report for  
FY 2021-22, our first as a publicly listed company. I am proud of what 
Paytm has achieved in the last year with rapid growth in payments, 
and a huge scale-up in lending and payments devices businesses. 
We remain committed to building a large, profitable company and 
creating long-term shareholder value.
India is in the midst of a technology revolution, as consumers and small businesses are 
adopting technology at a rapid pace. The network effect of this adoption across use 
cases is visible and is having a profound impact. Payments has been at the forefront 
of this revolution and now consumers and merchants are increasingly using, and 
indeed demanding, digital financial services. We are proud to say that our businesses 
are leveraging this opportunity and contributing in further accelerating the pace of 
technology adoption. I believe, in the days to come, India will become an exemplar 
market, especially in payments, leading to financial services.
The core of Paytm’s business model is to acquire consumers and merchants for 
payments services, and upselling them financial services, by leveraging our distribution, 
collections and our transactional and behavioural insights. We have sharpened our 
focus on Payments and distribution of Lending products and have prioritised these 
businesses in our resource allocation.
Paytm app now has more and more users coming on to our platform for their everyday 
usage without requiring any incentive from us. We are focused on further expanding 
our payments network by acquiring quality customers and merchants with high activity 
rate and transaction frequency. UPI has emerged as one of the key customers and 
merchant acquisition channels for us. UPI merchant payments, which are free for the 
merchant, have now also become economically viable because the government is 
encouraging digital payments through incentives on UPI P2M transactions. We have 
been able to monetise our platform by upselling financial services to our customers 
and merchants, and also upselling payment devices to our merchants.
Our team is focused on expanding the payments offerings available to our consumers 
- on Paytm app, in-store, online, using FASTag affixed on cars, among many other 
everyday habits. Our focus is also on showing how creditors can leverage this mobile 
payments relationship for lending. BNPL, which allows our partner financial institutions 

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 26
7
Annual Report 
2022
to issue credit to consumers at the point of sale, has become a consumer favourite. 
Our attention is on helping our financial institution partners issue less and less risky 
loans to more and more people. Aligned to the Government and Regulator expectations 
of expanding financial services inclusion and digital disbursement of lending, Paytm’s 
business model expands the creditworthiness of consumers and enables greater access. 
We see that merchants intuitively understand the value of digital payments; and 
increasingly, they are ready to pay for technology that makes digital payments 
easier and trusted. We are increasingly seeing merchants opt for devices, whether 
Paytm card machines or Soundbox, on their counter, and this adoption of devices 
by merchants is almost certainly going to further accelerate. Once merchants start 
accepting payments through us, they start to become eligible for lending from the 
lenders that we have partnered with, who are able to rely on our distribution and 
merchant insights, otherwise unavailable to them. This presents us with a great 
opportunity to enable financial inclusion for a large number of merchants. This journey 
means that the relationship we have with our merchants expands over time from QR 
payments to devices to credit.
Paytm pioneered mobile payments in India, serving customers as well as small and 
large merchants. Paytm’s technology platform is focused on delivering newer ways for 
payment solutions, including GPS based payment etc. Our offering to the ecosystem is 
innovative technology and the ultimate business solution that has become mainstream 
for the industry and the country. We strive to continue delivering innovative funding 
sources and payment methods, which is also encouraged by Regulators.
I believe that over the past year, our team has done a great job in massively 
improving our revenues and contribution profits, which allows for investments in 
our payments and credit businesses while at the same time reducing our EBITDA 
losses. We are seeing excellent momentum in our businesses and are on track to 
achieve operating profitability (EBITDA before ESOP cost) by the quarter ending 
September 2023. 
Yours sincerely,
Vijay

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 27
Management 
Discussion and 
Analysis

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 28
Macroeconomic overview
India is a country with hundreds of millions of consumers who are fast adopting smartphones, and 
aspiring to a world class experience in payments and financial services. Similarly, there are millions of 
small businesses who would benefit from having increased access to affordable software, technology 
and financial services. We believe these consumers and small businesses can be served through 
world-class, technology-led, digital-first payment and financial services.
Despite the impact due to COVID-19 pandemic on global economies, India continues to be the fastest 
growing major economy globally and is expected to grow at a CAGR of 9% over next five years, 
according to RedSeer. The key aspects of economic growth in India are (i) rising consumption, (ii) 
favourable demographics with a large working population, and (iii) growing urbanization.
Industry overview and Outlook 
India’s payment landscape has transformed over the last decade driven by the innovations in mobile 
payments and payments infrastructure, the government’s vision to transform India into a cashless 
society, high consumer and merchant acceptance, and regulatory support. Digital payments continue 
to scale rapidly due to the increasing user preference of transacting through their mobile phones for 
bill payments, in-store payments and for money-transfer, combined with growth of digital commerce 
and services. As a result of these factors, unique online transacting users, transacting for services 
such as online banking, mobile top-ups, in-store payments etc. are expected to grow from 250-300 
million in FY 2021 to 700-750 million by FY 2026 (Source: The Digital Transformation of Payments and 
Financial Services in India dated October 23, 2021, prepared by RedSeer).
We provide payment services to consumers and merchants, allow merchants to grow their business 
using Paytm’s consumer traffic, and provide financial services, particularly lending (through our 
financial institution partners) to both consumers and merchants. In these areas, India has lower 
levels of online penetration vs other markets. Compared to other countries, India’s value of card 
transactions (credit card + debit card) as a % of GDP, at 7% in CY21E, is one of the lowest. Including 
mobile payments, this ratio is 14%, still lower than just card payment transactions in other countries 
(Source: broker research). Over the next 8 years, broker research expects digital payments’ share in 
GDP to more than double to 32%, similar to current card payment penetration levels in countries such 
as the UK and the US, but still lower than penetration levels in China and South Korea.
As per estimates from brokers, most of Paytm's TAMs are expected to grow at 20%+ CAGR over the 
next 5 years. Broker research estimates the digital payments TAM in India to be US$436 billion in 
FY22E (merchant payments only; cards + UPI), having grown at a 38% CAGR since FY17. They forecast 
India's digital payments TAM to grow at a 23% FY22E-30E CAGR to reach US$2.3 tn by FY30E. 
By FY 2026, retail lending is expected to be a US$1 trillion market, and MSME lending is expected to 
be a US$600 billion market (Source: RedSeer). Across such traditional financial services products, 
India has growth opportunities aided by technology and rising digitization to increase access and 
reach. Industry research estimates that the total BNPL market in India stood at US$3 billion in FY21, 
of which US$2 billion was through online channels, while remaining US$1 billion was through offline 
channels. They forecast the BNPL industry to grow at 65% FY21-26E CAGR to reach US$35 billion 
(14% of credit spends) by FY26E. Of the US$35 billion, they estimate online channels to constitute 
US$24 billion and the remainder US$11 billion from offline medium.
Our Business Model
Our business is to offer a comprehensive suite of payments services to acquire consumers and merchants, 
as well as leverage our two-sided, consumer and merchant ecosystem and rich insights from our platform 
to cross-sell high-margin financial services and merchant services (commerce and cloud).
9
Annual Report 
2022
Management 
Discussion and 
Analysis

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 29
Consumers come to our platform for a variety of payment use cases as well as the comprehensiveness 
of available payment instruments. High consumer adoption encourages merchants to join our platform, 
and also use our commerce offerings to leverage our consumer traffic to grow their business. At the 
same time, more merchants on our platform leads to a more diverse array of use cases on offer for 
consumers. This creates a self-reinforcing loop, which demonstrates high frequency, high repeat 
rates, and leads to powerful consumer stickiness and retention.
Our large distribution, and insights from our payment and commerce services, enables us to upsell 
high margin and low CAC financial services to our consumers and merchants. For consumers and 
merchants, we offer various lending products, with our financial institution partners, such as Paytm 
Postpaid (BNPL), Personal Loans and Merchant Loans.
Payment Services
On our platform, consumers can use a wide selection of instruments, both third party like cards, net 
banking and Paytm Payment Instruments like Wallet, Paytm Postpaid (BNPL) to make online payments 
for Mobile Recharge, Utility Bills, Rent, Education, Wallet top-ups and money transfers using the 
Paytm app. Consumers can also make online payments on third party apps and in-store payments 
through QR codes and devices. 
The increased adoption of payments use-cases on our platform has resulted in our Monthly 
Transacting Users (MTU) growing 41% Y-o-Y to surpass 70 million during Q4 FY 2022.
Average Monthly Transacting Users  
(in Mn)
Q1
39.7
50.4
Q2
43.0
57.4
Q3
47.1
64.4
Q4
50.4
70.9
FY 2021
FY 2022
+ Brand 
+ Distribution
+ Insights
+ Technology
Low CAC, 
High Engagement 
Payments Super App
Payments
Services
Commerce 
Services
Users
Financial Services
• Paytm Postpaid (BNPL)
• Personal Loan 
• Co-branded Credit Card
• Merchant Loan
Users
Merchants
10
Annual Report 
2022
Management 
Discussion and 
Analysis

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 30
On the merchant side of our platform, we help our partners grow their businesses by providing 
solutions that allow them to accept payments through a wide variety of instruments and by deploying 
devices that help with reconciliations.
Entry level merchants can use a free Mobile QR to accept payments, typically using Paytm Payment 
Instruments or UPI. Government incentives on UPI person-to-merchant (“P2M”) payments have created 
a multiplier effect - the offering is free for merchants and hence encourages high usage, whereas it 
is economically viable for payment providers such as Paytm because of government incentives, and 
upsell opportunities. Small retailers can upgrade to Soundbox devices which allow better reconciliation 
for merchants, hence enhancing their trust in digital payments, and generating subscription revenues 
for us. Our mid-sized and large retailers also use our POS devices which enables them to accept 
mobile and card payments, thus generating both MDR as well as subscription revenues for us. For 
Online and Omni channel merchants we offer a robust payment gateway product allowing merchants 
to reliably accept payments across all channels, thus generating MDR revenue and platform fees.
As of March 2022, our merchant base has grown to 26.7 million, with deployed payment devices 
increasing to 2.9 million from 0.8 million in FY 2021, thus accelerating our subscription revenues.
Total Payment Devices Deployed by the end of the quarter  
(in Mn)
Q1
0.2
0.9
Q2
0.3
1.3
Q3
0.6
2.0
Q4
0.8
2.9
FY 2021
FY 2022
Travel & 
Entertainment 
Ticketing
Deals & Gift 
Vouchers
Advertising 
& Marketing
Omni
Channel
Merchant
Entry Level Merchant use
Free Mobile QR for Payments
Small Retailers upgrade to Sound 
Box for reconciliation & trust 
Mid & Large Retailers
Uses POS for Mobile & Card 
Payments
Online
Merchants 
1. Subscription
Merchants pay for device 
usage, loyalty & other 
cloud solutions
Merchants pay for 
accepting Cards,
EMI / BNPL payments
2. MDR
Revenue Model for 
Payment services to 
Merchants
Omni
Channel
Merchant
Entry Level Merchant use
Free Mobile QR for Payments
Small Retailers upgrade to Sound 
Box for reconciliation & trust 
Mid & Large Retailers
Uses POS for Mobile & Card 
Payments
Revenue Model for 
Commerce and Cloud 
services to Merchants 
3. 
11
Annual Report 
2022
Management 
Discussion and 
Analysis

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 31
Driven by increased user and merchant engagement, we witnessed a massive growth in our GMV, 
which for the full year FY 2022 at ₹8.5 Lakh Cr, has more than doubled from ₹4.0 Lakh Cr in FY 2021.
Financial Services
Insights from our Payments and Commerce services creates the foundation for our Financial services 
offerings to consumers and merchants, which consist of innovative financial inclusion offerings like 
mobile banking, lending, insurance, and wealth management for consumers and merchants. 
As part of our Lending business, we operate a technology platform with capabilities across the entire loan 
lifecycle including origination, assisting in augmenting lending partners risk models, loan management 
and collection to provide seamless credit access to our consumers and merchants through our financial 
institution partners. Our financial institution partners are the ones who enter into bilateral agreements 
with the customers, underwrite the loans and own the loan book and are also responsible for a 
customer’s KYC, credit bureau reporting. We work with our financial institution partners in improving 
their distribution, underwriting and collections, and aim to drive the increase of credit access in India.  
Our lending business continues to scale providing attractive upsell revenues. Our lending partners 
disbursed over 15.2 million loans through our platform in FY2022, a 478% growth over FY2021. The 
value of loans grew 441% to ₹7,623 cr in FY2022, from ₹1,409 cr in FY2021.
Gross Merchandise Value  
(in ₹ Lakh Cr)
Q1
J 0.7
J 1.5
Q2
J 0.9
J 2.0
Q3
J 1.1
J 2.5
Q4
J 1.3
J 2.6
FY 2021
FY 2022
Number of Loans Disbursed  
(in Mn)
Q1
0.0
1.4
Q2
0.3
2.8
Q3
0.9
4.4
Q4
1.4
6.5
FY 2021
FY 2022
12
Annual Report 
2022
Management 
Discussion and 
Analysis

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 32
Merchant (Commerce and Cloud) Services
To help our merchant partners grow their business by leveraging Paytm’s consumer traffic, we offer 
them merchant services like ability to sell tickets to customers, advertising, loyalty solutions like deals 
and gift vouchers. We also provide software and cloud services to enterprises, telecom companies, 
and digital and fintech platforms to track and enhance customer engagement, build payment systems, 
and unlock customer insights.
Our commerce offerings provide a lifestyle destination for consumers to avail services such as travel 
and entertainment ticketing, gaming and more. Easy access to such services within the Paytm App 
environment plays an important role in user engagement and retention.
Business Update and Outlook
We ended the fiscal year with strong growth across our businesses and reductions in EBITDA losses (before 
ESOP cost) which puts us well on track to achieve operating profitability by the quarter ending September 
2023. Our platform growth continues to be impressive, represented by our average Monthly Transacting 
Users (MTU) and registered merchant base. We have also seen increased monetization of payments, in 
the form of both MDR and subscription revenues. Our platform presents immense opportunities to our 
merchants to attract customers at a large scale, and we leverage our distribution network to offer lending 
products to our consumers and merchants in partnership with financial institutions.
We report our revenue under two lines, (i) Payment and Financial Services, and (ii) Commerce and 
Cloud Services.
Payment and Financial Services:
Our revenue from Payment and Financial services grew 83% to ₹3,858 Cr in FY2022 from ₹2,109 Cr in 
FY2021. We further split our Payment and Financial Services revenues into the following lines, (i) Payment 
Services to Consumers, (ii) Payment Services to Merchants, and (iii) Financial Services and Others.
Value of Loans Disbursed  
(in ₹ Cr)
Q1
J 44
J 632
Q2
J 206
J 1,257
Q3
J 468
J 2,181
Q4
J 687
J 3,553
FY 2021
FY 2022
13
Annual Report 
2022
Management 
Discussion and 
Analysis

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 33
Payment Services to Consumers includes revenues from the use cases such as bill payments and top-
ups on the Paytm platform. These revenues are primarily from, (i) the transaction fee that we charge 
our merchants based on a percentage of GMV, and (ii) consumer convenience fees that we charge our 
consumers for certain types of transactions. Revenue from payment services to consumers grew 58% to 
₹1,529 Cr in FY2022 from ₹969 Cr in FY2021, primarily due to a growth in the user base, increasing usage 
of the Paytm app and Paytm Payment instruments.
Payment Services to Merchants includes revenues from our comprehensive offerings of online and 
in-store payment acceptance services such as Payment Gateway, All-in-one and Dynamic-QR, 
POS, and Soundbox. These revenues are primarily from, (i) the transaction fee that we charge our 
merchants based on a percentage of GMV and (ii) recurring subscription fees from merchants for 
certain products and services, such as Paytm Soundbox and POS. Revenue from payment services 
to merchants grew 87% to ₹1,892 Cr in FY2022 from ₹1,012 Cr in FY2021, primarily due to new large 
partnerships in payment gateway and an increase in our device merchant base.
Revenue from Payment Services to Consumers  
(in ₹ Cr)
Q1
J 208
J 301
Q2
J 229
J 354
Q3
J 254
J 406
Q4
J 278
J 469
FY 2021
FY 2022
Revenue from Payment Services to Merchants  
(in ₹ Cr)
Q1
J 198
J 334
Q2
J 243
J 400
Q3
J 269
J 586
Q4
J 301
J 572
FY 2021
FY 2022
Revenue from Payment and Financial Services  
(in ₹ Cr)
Q1
J 430
J 689
Q2
J 498
J 843
Q3
J 565
J 1,117
Q4
J 617
J 1,209
FY 2021
FY 2022
14
Annual Report 
2022
Management 
Discussion and 
Analysis

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 34
Financial Services and Others include revenues that we make from our financial services partners or 
consumers from our financial services offerings, primarily lending. Revenue from financial services 
and others grew 240% to ₹437 Cr in FY2022 from ₹128 Cr in FY2021, primarily driven by 441% Y-o-Y 
growth in the value of loans disbursed in FY 2022 to ₹7,623 Cr, from ₹1,409 Cr in FY2021.
Commerce and Cloud Services:
In commerce services, we generate revenue by levying a transaction fee to our merchant partners 
and/or a convenience fee to our customers, typically linked to a percentage of the transaction value 
of use cases such as ticketing for travel and entertainment and deals. The revenues grew 52% to 
₹374 Cr in FY2022 from ₹245 Cr in FY2021, primarily due to gradual ease in COVID-19 restrictions on 
transport, travel, and social distancing.
In cloud services, we generate revenue by charging our merchant partners a fee (subscription and 
volume linked) for utilizing our cloud and software solutions and our advertising partners, depending 
on the scale and type of campaign. The revenue from cloud services grew 63% to ₹731 Cr in FY2022 
from ₹448 Cr in FY2021, primarily due to an increase in Advertising and PAI cloud.
Revenue from Commerce and Cloud Services  
(in ₹ Cr)
Q1
J 121
J 201
Q2
J 166
J 244
Q3
J 207
J 339
Q4
J 199
J 320
FY 2021
FY 2022
Revenue from Financial Services and Others  
(in ₹ Cr)
Q1
J 23
J 55
Q2
J 25
J 89
Q3
J 42
J 125
Q4
J 38
J 168
FY 2021
FY 2022
Our revenue from Commerce and Cloud Services grew 59% to ₹1,105 Cr in FY2022 from ₹693 Cr 
in FY2021. We further split our Commerce and Cloud Services revenues into the following lines,  
(i) Commerce Services and (ii) Cloud Services. 
15
Annual Report 
2022
Management 
Discussion and 
Analysis

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 35
Discussion on financial performance with respect to operational performance
in ₹ crores, except percentages
Particulars
FY 2022
FY 2021
Y-o-Y Δ
Revenue from Operations
4,974
2,802
77%
	
Payments & Financial Services
3,858
2,109
83%
	
	
Payment Services to Consumers
1,529
969
58%
	
	
Payment Services to Merchants
1,892
1,012
87%
	
	
Financial Services and Others
437
128
240%
	
Commerce & Cloud Services
1,105
693
59%
	
	
Commerce
374
245
52%
	
	
Cloud
731
448
63%
	
Other Operating Revenue
12
0
nm
Total Direct Expenses
3,476
2,440
42%
Contribution Profit
1,498
363
313%
Margin %
30.1%
12.9%
1,718 bps
Indirect Expenses (excluding ESOP cost)
3,016
2,017
49%
% of Revenue
60.6%
72.0%
(1,136) bps
EBITDA (before ESOP cost)
(1,518)
(1,655)
(8%)
Margin %
(30.5%)
(59.0%)
2,854 bps
Particulars
FY 2022
FY 2021
Y-o-Y Δ
Debtors Turnover Ratio
8.17
5.81
40.6%
Current Ratio
3.22
3.43
(6.1)%
Debt-Equity Ratio
0.02
0.09
(83.3)%
Operating Profit Margin (%)
(52.0)%
(69.4)%
25.1%
Net Profit Margin (%)
(48.2)%
(60.7)%
20.6%
Return on Equity Ratio (%)
(23.2)%
(23.3)%
0.3%
Details of Key Consolidated Financial Ratios
* Interest coverage ratio has not been computed as earnings available for the interest payments are negative for the 
current and previous financial years
* Inventory turnover ratio is not applicable for our business
Drivers for Growth and Opportunities
Our ecosystem allows us to address large market opportunities: As India’s leading digital ecosystem 
for consumers and merchants, we have built the largest payments platform in number of consumers 
and merchants. Customers use various payment services on our platform, and merchants use us to 
accept payments and grow their business. We also provide financial services through our financial 
institution partners, particularly lending. Payments is a universal need for consumers and merchants, 
and provides us an attractive way of acquiring, retaining and monetising customers and merchants. 
It continues to give us very high engagement, and in addition, we believe we can make substantial 
revenues and profits in payments. Digital distribution of credit is a very large and scalable profit pool 
in India. Our ecosystem allows us to address these multiple large market opportunities at scale and 
gives us multiple growth vectors.
16
Annual Report 
2022
Management 
Discussion and 
Analysis

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 36
Our insights of Indian consumers and merchants: We have developed unparalleled insights into 
the way Indian consumers spend and save, and the way merchants operate their businesses. Being 
in the middle of payments flows between consumers and merchants, and transacting the largest 
peer to merchant payments volumes in India, gives us a large amount of transactional insights on our 
consumers and merchants which helps us design and show customized Paytm products, including 
some in partnership with financial institution partners. 
Our network effect creates sustainable advantages for us: We believe that our brand, distribution, 
insights, technology skills, and the scope of our ecosystem (i) give us an advantage to grow our 
business through, cost-effective acquisition of consumers and merchants; (ii) reinforce our platform 
by building higher engagement and stickiness with consumers and merchants; and (iii) build high 
monetisation products at low cost of acquisition.
Our product and technology DNA: Our technology stack is built ground up and integrated across 
all aspects of our ecosystem. We are the only payments company in India that, together with our 
affiliates, owns each layer of the payment stack. This allows us to integrate our payments offering 
seamlessly with other offerings. Similarly, for financial services, our technology infrastructure is built 
on a stack that is owned, controlled and written by us, our respective subsidiaries or associates. Our 
technology ownership and scope of our ecosystem has allowed us (and our associates, and financial 
institution partners) to offer services such as Paytm Wallet, Paytm QR, Paytm Soundbox, Gold 
investments and Fixed Deposit, Paytm Postpaid, Merchant Cash Advance and FASTag. All of these 
products aim to improve the experience of consumers and merchants who use it in our ecosystem.
Enabling regulatory environment: In our view, the regulatory environment in India remains 
constructive and supportive of digital payments and financial services. RBI in its Payments Vision 
2025 has reinforced the themes of enabling growth of digital payments across multiple instruments 
including UPI, PPI and cards. Regulatory compliance remains a key focus for us as an organization. 
Internal Control Systems and Risk Management Framework
In a rapidly evolving business, technical and regulatory environment coupled with dynamic consumer 
demands and growing competition, our risk profile is also evolving constantly. Our Company is 
cognizant that effective risk management is core to a sustainable business. We have therefore 
adopted a dynamic risk management framework that functions under the oversight of our Audit 
Committee and Risk Management Committee. 
Anti-money laundering and Counter-terrorism Financing Risk Management: To ensure clean day-
to-day operations, we have instituted comprehensive on-boarding and risk management practices, 
which include appropriate anti-money laundering policies and procedures.
Investments and Acquisitions Risk Management: To ensure that our investments and acquisitions 
are strategically complementary to our business, we have an identified team of professionals who 
manage our portfolio in alignment with the Company’s growth plans.
Business and Operational Risks
Covid-19 and economic environment: While Covid-19 and the economic downturn did impact 
businesses this fiscal, we managed it effectively and recorded a robust revenue growth of 77%. 
While we are doing all that is necessary and in our control, COVID-19 and any adversity in economic 
conditions can impact our business activities and revenue.
Financial: Growing engagement on our platform gives us monetization opportunities across payment, 
lending and commerce. We ended this fiscal year with strong growth. However, our operating expenses 
could increase as we hire additional personnel, broaden our marketing and promotional activities, 
enhance our platforms and offerings, expand our products and services, and develop our interface. 
17
Annual Report 
2022
Management 
Discussion and 
Analysis

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 37
Pace of technology innovation: We make significant investments to constantly improve the scale, 
stability and functionality of our technology. Failure to maintain best-in-class technology infrastructure 
could harm our business and prospects.
Cybersecurity: Our platform incorporates multiple layers of protection for business continuity and 
to manage cybersecurity risks and data security breaches. We use analytics and machine learning 
to ensure optimum automated fraud detection during transaction processing. Encrypted data 
transmission using security protocols and algorithms ensures confidentiality and prevents leakage 
of confidential customer data. Data and technology infrastructures are vulnerable to cyber-attacks, 
as any such incident could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business. 
Regulatory:  Most of our businesses are subject to a fast evolving regulatory landscape. We are 
extremely focused on ensuring compliance with the statutory and regulatory framework, and are 
continuously strengthening our compliance processes and management depth. 
Competition: We consistently invest in enhancing our platform and customer-centric services in order 
to maintain our leadership. Our industry is extremely competitive, and consumers and merchants 
have multiple options. 
Litigation: We have a dedicated team to manage litigation risk and engage external consultants where 
necessary, thereby ensuring minimum impact of materiality. As a Company (or key management) we 
may be subject to legal proceedings, including ongoing litigation in tax, civil or other matters.
Material developments in Human Resources
In FY 2022, we had an average of 17,964 on-roll and 2,086 off-roll employees worldwide. We also 
engage contractors to provide us with a temporary workforce. None of our employees are represented 
by a labour union. We have not experienced any work stoppages since our incorporation.
Employee costs (excluding ESOP cost) as a % of revenue, moderated to 33% in FY2022 from 38% in 
FY2021. However, our Employee costs (excluding ESOP cost) at ₹1,623 Cr in FY 2022 grew 51% from 
₹1,072 Cr, as we strengthened our sales channel to drive penetration of our high margin use cases 
such as devices. We are also investing in our product and technology team to help scale our platform 
to support the next leg of users and transactions, and scaled up new services such as lending. 
Sustainability and Supporting our Community 
In our mission to bring half a billion Indians into the mainstream economy, we are governed by our 
values of serving the community, and maintaining trust while moving fast, responsibly and focusing 
on the underserved and unserved. Not only do we solve for our merchants receiving digital payments 
via various sources, and in turn, engaging more users, but also receive seamless access to micro-
credit, business payment solutions and wealth management, safely.
Financial Inclusion
We, at Paytm, firmly believe that technology when combined with a positive intent can create a 
huge impact. We are constantly working on innovative solutions that can make everyday life simpler: 
full-stack digital banking to underserved Indians, institutional financial services such as loans and 
bookkeeping and invoicing to micro, small and medium enterprises, and democratizing access to the 
formal credit and wealth management system.
As pioneers of India’s QR and mobile payments revolution, we continue to empower the grassroots 
of the country with robust digital payment solutions. We offer a series of smart devices to accelerate 
India’s digital payment penetration. Products such as the Paytm Soundbox have ensured that our 
country’s small shopkeepers never miss a digital payment and confidently complete transactions. 
18
Annual Report 
2022
Management 
Discussion and 
Analysis

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 38
We are partners for the BC (Banking Correspondent) Sakhi program, which aims to improve the quality 
of life of women and to empower them. BC Sakhis are the fellow women members of respective 
SHGs (Self-help group), which in-turn has helped us to reach out to ever larger underserved groups. 
Engaging Users on Social Causes
As one of India’s largest digital platforms, we take pride in being able to mobilize our ecosystem 
participants in times of social and disaster relief. During the year we have continued to raise social 
awareness and raise contributions from our users to aid the Central and State governments, as 
well as independent local bodies, by enabling online payments to their preferred non-governmental 
organization or any other platform. 
COVID-19 Response
As an organized response to COVID-19, and to be prepared to serve our nation in the future, we set 
up the Paytm Foundation, as a Public Charitable Trust in India formed exclusively for philanthropic 
purposes in the areas of providing relief in times of natural calamities and disasters, supplementing 
need-based medical infrastructure, welfare of persons with disabilities, education and financial 
literacy, and advancement of general public utilities. 
We joined the Government of India’s PM-CARES fund collection efforts, with support from our 
consumers and merchants. We launched the India Fights Corona campaign to help prevent, and 
manage the spread of, COVID-19 in communities with the greatest need, by allowing users to donate 
for distribution of hygiene products among vulnerable sections of the society.
As a company, a special task force with employees stepped up across the country, to coordinate 
COVID-19 assistance in different cities in India. We also led a large-scale relief effort for the nation, 
by launching an OxygenforLife crowdfunding initiative for sourcing oxygen concentrators for donating 
to government hospitals, foundations and non-governmental organizations. Further, as a long-
term solution to meet oxygen demand, Paytm Foundation supported partner organizations to set 
up oxygen plants in selected government hospitals throughout the country. These helped produce 
medical oxygen from ambient air while simultaneously supplying the gas to multiple beds. So far, 17 
such plants have been donated by partner organizations and Paytm Foundation has facilitated the 
setting up of these oxygen plants and 1 oxygen plant has been set up by Paytm Foundation, making a 
total of 18 oxygen plants which have been setup and facilitated by Paytm Foundation.
We have introduced a dedicated section on our app, with a COVID-19 self-assessment scanning tool, 
which utilizes contract tracing to identify if one is potentially at risk of suffering from the virus. We 
have also leveraged our access to consumers and distribution, to help users find and book slots for 
COVID-19 vaccination, via a Vaccine Finder feature launched on our app.
International forums for Sustainability
We proudly represent our country on international forums working for sustainability. Since December 
2017, our Founder, Vijay Shekhar Sharma, has been the United Nations Environment Programme’s 
(“UNEP”) Patron for Clean Air, and helps drive greater environmental action and awareness to advocate 
for UNEP’s global #BreatheLife campaign – a major initiative on air quality seeking to influence policy 
and citizen action for a healthy future. Our Founder is also on the Advisory Board of the Green Digital 
Finance Alliance. The Alliance was set up by Ant Financial Services and UNEP to address the potential 
for digital finance and fintech-powered business innovations to reshape the financial system in ways 
that better align it with the needs of sustainable development.
19
Annual Report 
2022
Management 
Discussion and 
Analysis

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 39
UNEP AQAF “(Air Quality Action Forum)” Project
During the year, UNEP and Paytm foundation have launched a national-level action-oriented forum 
for India, involving the regulators, national & international philanthropic organizations, international 
development agencies & the corporate sector. This forum intends to identify the needs, gaps, and 
solutions to the problem of air quality in India and will ensure project implementation in a structured 
manner with a yearly action plan.
20
Annual Report 
2022
Management 
Discussion and 
Analysis

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 40
Board’s Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 41
Board’s Report
Dear Members,
The Board of Directors (“Board”) are pleased to present the Twenty Second (22nd) Annual Report on the business and 
operations of One 97 Communications Limited (“Company” or “Paytm”) together with the Audited Standalone and 
Consolidated Financial Statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2022.
COMPANY PERFORMANCE AND STATE OF AFFAIRS
Financial Performance
Key highlights of the financial results of the Company prepared as per the Indian Accounting Standards for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2022 are as under:
(Amounts in ₹ Million, except Earning Per Share) 
Particulars
 Consolidated 
 Standalone 
 Year ended 
 Year ended 
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Revenue from operations
49,742 
28,024 
38,924 
26,671 
Other income 
2,901 
3,844 
2,830 
3,749 
Total income
52,643 
31,868 
41,754 
30,420 
Total expenses
76,011 
47,830 
64,561 
45,369 
Loss before share of profit / (loss) of 
associates / joint ventures, exceptional items 
and tax
 (23,368)
 (15,962)
 (22,807)
 (14,949)
Share of profit/ (loss) of associates / joint 
ventures
 (459)
 (740)
- 
- 
Loss before exceptional items and tax
 (23,827)
 (16,702)
 (22,807)
 (14,949)
Exceptional items
 (24)
 (281)
 (441)
 (650)
Loss before tax
 (23,851)
 (16,983)
 (23,248)
 (15,599)
Income Tax expense
113 
27 
3 
2 
Loss for the year
 (23,964)
 (17,010)
 (23,251)
 (15,601)
Other comprehensive income/ (loss)
9,549 
 (30)
 (18)
 (15)
Total Comprehensive Income/ (Loss) for the 
year
 (14,415)
 (17,040)
 (23,269)
 (15,616)
Earnings per share (Amount in ₹)
 
 
 
 
Basic
 (38)
 (28)
 (37)
 (26)
Diluted
 (38)
 (28)
 (37)
 (26)
State of Company's Affairs 
The Company serves as a digital ecosystem for consumers 
and merchants. The Company offers a digital payments 
platform for use cases such as money transfers, online 
and in-store merchant payments and bill payments. It 
offers commerce and cloud services, such as ticketing and 
advertising. It also offers technology led financial services 
such as loans, insurance and wealth management, offered 
through financial partners.
Information on the operational and financial performance, 
among others, is provided in the Management Discussion 
and Analysis Report which forms part of the Annual Report 
and is in accordance with the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing 
Regulations”).
Dividend
Pursuant to Regulation 43A of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
the Company has adopted the Dividend Distribution Policy 
22
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 42
on July 10, 2021, setting out the broad principles for guiding 
the Board and the management in matters relating to 
declaration and distribution of dividend, and the same is 
available on the website of the Company at www.paytm.
com/investor-relations/policies-and-guidelines.
The Board do not recommend any dividend for the financial 
year 2021-2022 (“FY 2021-22”).
Transfer to Reserves
During FY 2021-22, the Company has not transferred any 
amount to Statutory Reserves. Further, the details of amount 
transferred to other reserves (including ESOP Reserve), if 
any, form part of Note no. 11(b) of the standalone financial 
statements and Note no. 10(b) of the consolidated financial 
statements provided in the annual report.
Particulars of Loans, Guarantees or Investments
Particulars of loans, guarantees and investments covered 
under Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) forms 
part of the Note Nos. 5, 6 and 7 of the Standalone Financial 
Statements and Note Nos. 5 and 6 of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements provided in the Annual Report.
MATERIAL EVENTS DURING FY 2021-22 UNDER 
REVIEW
Initial Public Offer of Equity Shares
The equity shares of the Company got listed on BSE Limited 
(“BSE”) and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
(“NSE”) with effect from November 18, 2021, pursuant to 
Initial Public Offering (“IPO”) of the Company by way of a 
Fresh Issue of shares and an Offer for Sale.
During FY 2021-22, Company made an IPO of 85,116,278 
equity shares of face value of ₹ 1 each of the Company 
for cash at a price of ₹ 2,150/- per equity share, including 
a premium of ₹ 2,149/- per equity share aggregating to  
₹ 183,000 millions, comprising of a fresh issue of 38,604,651 
equity shares aggregating to ₹ 83,000 millions and an 
offer for sale of 46,511,627 equity shares aggregating to  
₹ 100,000 millions. IPO was opened on November 8, 2021 
and closed on November 10, 2021.
Pursuant to the SEBI Listing Regulations & SEBI (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018, 
the net proceeds of IPO have been partially utilized during 
FY 2021-22, in line with the objects of the offer. Detailed 
Monitoring Agency Report for such utilization are received 
by the Company from its Monitoring Agency on quarterly 
basis affirming no deviation in utilisation of the issue 
proceeds from the object stated in offer documents and 
submitted to Stock Exchanges in compliance with the 
aforesaid regulations.
The Company confirms that it has paid the Annual Listing 
Fees for FY 2021-22 to NSE and BSE.
Transfer 
of 
Online 
Payment 
Aggregation 
Business to Wholly Owned Subsidiary
In compliance with the requirements of Reserve Bank 
of India (“RBI”) guidelines on regulation of Payment 
Aggregators and Payment Gateways dated March 17, 2020 
(“Guidelines”), and pursuant to the resolution(s) passed by 
the Board and members of the Company on August 30, 
2021 and September 23, 2021, respectively, the Company 
has transferred its Online Payment Aggregation Business 
to its wholly owned subsidiary company viz. Paytm 
Payments Services Limited, which has applied to the RBI for 
authorization for acting as a payment aggregator under the 
Payment and Settlement  Systems Act, 2007 read with the 
aforesaid Guidelines.
SHARE CAPITAL
Authorized Share Capital
During FY 2021-22, the face value of Company’s equity 
shares were sub-divided from ₹ 10/- per share to ₹ 1/- per 
share pursuant to the approval granted by the members 
of the Company in its Twenty First (21st) Annual General 
Meeting (“AGM”) held on June 30, 2021. The authorized 
share capital of the Company, as on March 31, 2022, was  
₹ 1,041,066,000/- comprising of 1,041,066,000 equity shares 
of ₹ 1/- each.
Issued, Subscribed, Paid-up Share Capital
During FY 2021-22, the Company has issued and allotted 
following equity shares:
a)	
On April 22, 2021, 9,081 equity shares of ₹ 10/- each 
were allotted to employees under the Employees Stock 
Option Scheme;
b)	 On May 28, 2021, 47,042 equity shares of ₹ 10/- each 
were allotted to employees under the Employees Stock 
Option Scheme;
c)	
On July 5, 2021, 544,870 equity shares of ₹ 1/- each 
were allotted to employees under the Employees Stock 
Option Scheme;
d)	 On August 13, 2021, 1,011,582 equity shares of ₹ 1/- 
each were allotted to employees under the Employees 
Stock Option Scheme;
e)	 On September 4, 2021, 332,360 equity shares of ₹ 1/- 
each were allotted to employees under the Employees 
Stock Option Scheme;
f)	
On September 14, 2021, 545,735 equity shares of ₹ 1/- 
each were allotted to employees under the Employees 
Stock Option Scheme;
g)	 On September 30, 2021, 1,849,191 equity shares of ₹ 1/- 
each were allotted to employees under the Employees 
Stock Option Scheme;
h)	 On November 15, 2021, 38,604,651 equity shares of  
₹ 1/- each were allotted to public pursuant to IPO;
i)	
On February 4, 2022, 250,531 equity shares of ₹ 1/- 
each were allotted to employees under the Employees 
Stock Option Scheme; and
23
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 43
j)	
On March 21, 2022, 37,224 equity shares of ₹ 1/- each 
were allotted to employees under the Employees Stock 
Option Scheme.
At the 21st AGM held on June 30, 2021, equity shares of the 
Company were sub-divided from ₹ 10/- per share to ₹ 1/- per 
share.
The issued and paid-up share capital of the Company 
as on March 31, 2022 was ₹ 648,561,414/- comprising of 
648,561,414 equity shares of ₹ 1/- each.
SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES
During FY 2021-22:
•	
no company ceased to be subsidiary, joint venture or 
associate of the Company; and
•	
no new company became the subsidiary, joint venture or 
associate of the Company except Admirable Software 
Limited which was incorporated on August 17, 2021, as 
a wholly owned subsidiary of Paytm Financial Services 
Limited (Associate Company of Paytm).
Pursuant to Section 129(3) of the Act, a statement containing 
the salient features of the financial statements of each 
subsidiary, joint venture and associate in the prescribed 
Form AOC-1 is annexed as Annexure-I to this report.
BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES
Board met nineteen (19) times during FY 2021-22. The 
composition of the Board and its Committees including 
details regarding meetings of the Board and Committees of 
the Board are set out in the Corporate Governance Report, 
which forms part of the Annual Report. The intervening gap 
between the two consecutive Board meetings was within 
the period prescribed under the provisions of Section 173 of 
the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
In terms of the provisions of Section 135 of the Act, read with 
Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 
2014, (as amended) the Board has constituted a Corporate 
Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Committee. The composition 
and terms of reference of the CSR Committee is provided in 
the Corporate Governance Report, which forms part of the 
Annual Report.
The Company has adopted a CSR Policy, which is available 
on the website of the Company at www.paytm.com/
investor-relations/policies-and-guidelines.
In view of the losses incurred by the Company during the 
previous financial years, the Company has no obligation for 
spending CSR during the FY 2021-22.
Annual Report on CSR activities, in the prescribed format, 
for FY 2021-22 as required under Sections 134 and 135 of 
the Act read with Rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 (as amended) and Rule 
9 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, is annexed as 
Annexure-II to this report.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company has complied with the corporate governance 
requirements under the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations. 
A separate section on corporate governance, along with a 
certificate from the practicing company secretary confirming 
Corporate Governance compliance is annexed and forms 
part of the Corporate Governance Report forming part of the 
Annual Report.
TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES
In line with the requirements of the Act and SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the Company has formulated a Policy on 
Related Party Transactions, which is available on the 
website of the Company at www.paytm.com/investor-
relations/policies-and-guidelines.
All the transactions with related parties entered into by the 
Company during the FY 2021-22 were on an arm’s length 
basis and in the ordinary course of business and adhere 
to the applicable provisions of the Act and the SEBI Listing 
Regulations.
All transactions with related parties are presented to the 
Audit Committee. None of the transactions with any of 
the related parties were in conflict with the interest of the 
Company rather, these were synchronized and synergized 
with the Company’s operations.
As required under the Act, particulars of material contracts/ 
arrangements with related partys during FY 2021-22, in the 
prescribed Form AOC-2, is annexed as Annexure-III to this 
report.
DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
Inductions
Directors
During the FY 2021-22, in terms of the provisions of the 
Act and based on the recommendation of Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee (“NRC”), the Board has appointed:
•	
Mr. Douglas  Feagin as an Additional Director with effect 
from July 5, 2021. Thereafter, members of the Company 
in the Extraordinary General Meeting (“EGM") held on 
September 2, 2021 appointed Mr. Douglas  Feagin as 
Non-executive Director of the Company; 
•	
Mr. Ashit Ranjit Lilani as an Additional and Non-executive 
Independent Director of the Company with effect from 
July 5, 2021, for a term of five (5) consecutive years, 
which was subsequently approved by the members of 
the Company in the EGM held on September 2, 2021;
24
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 44
•	
Mr. Vikas Agnihotri as an Alternate Director to Mr. Munish 
Ravinder Varma with effect from July 5, 2021; 
•	
Mr. Neeraj Arora as an Additional and Non-executive 
Independent Director of the Company with effect from 
July 11, 2021, for a term of five (5) consecutive years, 
which was subsequently approved by the members of the 
Company in the EGM held on September 2, 2021; and
•	
Mr. Vivek Kumar Mathur as an Alternate Director to  
Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli with effect from July 11, 2021.
The Board has appointed Mr. Madhur Deora as an Additional 
Director with effect from May 20, 2022 to hold the office till 
the ensuing 22nd AGM  of the Company. Further, the Board 
also appointed Mr. Madhur Deora as Whole-time Director 
designated as ‘Executive Director, President and Group 
Chief Financial Officer’ with effect from May 20, 2022 for 
a term of five (5) years, subject to approval of members at 
the ensuing 22nd AGM. Brief profile of Mr. Madhur Deora is 
provided in the Notice of ensuing 22nd AGM.
Key Managerial Personnel
During FY 2021-22, in terms of the provisions of the Act 
and based on the recommendation of NRC, the Board has 
appointed:
•	
Mr. Amit Khera as Company Secretary and Compliance 
Officer of the Company with effect from May 28, 2021; 
and
•	
Mr. Madhur Deora as Chief Financial Officer of the 
Company with effect from January 1, 2022.
Re-appointments
During FY 2021-22, in terms of the provisions of the Act 
and based on the recommendation of NRC and the Board, 
the members of the Company at 21st AGM held on June 30, 
2021 has re-appointed Mrs. Pallavi Shardul Shroff as an 
Non-executive Independent Director for a second term of 
five (5) consecutive years i.e. till February 8, 2026.
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Managing Director and Chief 
Executive Officer will be completing his present term as 
Managing Director of the Company on December 18, 2022. 
The Board in its meeting held on May 20, 2022, based on 
the recommendation of NRC and subject to the approval 
of members at the ensuing 22nd AGM, has re-appointed 
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Managing Director and Chief 
Executive officer of the Company for a further term of five 
(5) consecutive years with effect from December 19, 2022 
till December 18, 2027. Brief profile of Mr. Vijay Shekhar 
Sharma is provided in the Notice of ensuing 22nd AGM.
Director liable to retire by rotation
As per the provisions of the Act, Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli, 
Non-executive Director of the Company, who is liable to 
retire by rotation at the ensuing 22nd AGM, being eligible, 
seeks re-appointment. Based on performance evaluation 
and the recommendation of NRC, the Board recommends his  
re-appointment. Brief profile of Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli 
is provided in the Notice of ensuing 22nd AGM.
Cessation
Directors
During FY 2021-22, following persons ceased to be Director 
of the Company:
•	
Mr. Todd Anthony Combs, being retiring Director, did 
not offer himself for re-appointment at the 21st AGM. 
Consequently, Mr. Todd Anthony Combs ceased to be 
the Director of the Company with effect from June 30, 
2021;
•	
Mr. Michael Yuen Jen Yao, being retiring Director, did 
not offer himself for re-appointment at the 21st AGM. 
Consequently, Mr. Michael Yuen Jen Yao ceased to be 
the Director of the Company with effect from June 30, 
2021; 
•	
Consequent to the cessation of Mr. Michael Yuen 
Jen Yao, Mr. Ting Hong Kenny Ho, being alternate to  
Mr. Michael Yuen Jen Yao,  also ceased to be the 
Director with effect from June 30, 2021;
•	
Mr. Jing Xiandong ceased to be the Director of the 
Company with effect from July 5, 2021;
•	
Consequent to the cessation of Mr. Jing Xiandong,  
Mr. Guoming Cheng, being alternate to Mr. Jing Xiandong, 
also ceased to be the Director with effect from July 5, 2021;
•	
Mr. Mukul Arora, Alternate Director to Mr. Ravi Chandra 
Adusumalli, ceased to be as Director of the Company 
with effect from July 7, 2021;
•	
Mr. Munish Ravinder Varma  ceased to be as Director of 
the Company with effect from March 14, 2022; and
•	
Consequent to the cessation of Mr. Munish Ravinder 
Varma, Mr. Vikas Agnihotri, being alternate to  
Mr. Munish Ravinder Varma, also ceased to be Director 
with effect from March 14, 2022.
Key Managerial Personnel
During FY 2021-22, following persons ceased to be Key 
Managerial Personnel of the Company:
•	
Mr. Arvind Kumar ceased to be Company Secretary of 
the Company with effect from May 28, 2021; and
•	
Mr. Vikas Garg ceased to be Chief Financial Officer of 
the Company with effect from December 31, 2021.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 203 of the Act, Mr. Vijay 
Shekhar Sharma, Managing Director and Chief Executive 
Officer, Mr. Madhur Deora, Chief Financial Officer and  
Mr. Amit Khera, Company Secretary are the Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Company as on March 31, 2022.
25
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 45
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
Pursuant to clause (c) of sub-section (3) of Section 134 of 
the Act, it is confirmed that:
a)	
in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable 
accounting standards had been followed along with 
proper explanation relating to material departures;
b)	 the Directors had selected such accounting policies 
and applied them consistently and made judgements 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as 
to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company at the end of the FY 2021-22 and of the profit 
and loss of the Company for that period;
c)	
the Directors had taken proper and sufficient care 
for the maintenance of adequate accounting records 
in accordance with the provisions of this Act for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and for 
preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities;
d)	 the Directors had prepared the annual accounts on a 
going concern basis;
e)	 the Directors, had laid down internal financial controls 
to be followed by the Company and that such internal 
financial controls are adequate and are operating 
effectively; and
f)	
the Directors had devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws 
and that such systems were adequate and operating 
effectively.
Independent Directors
The Independent Directors have submitted their declaration 
of Independence, stating that:
(i)	 they continue to fulfil the criteria of independence as 
required pursuant to Section 149 read with Schedule IV 
of the Act and Regulation 16 and 25 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations;
(ii)	 they are not debarred from holding the office of 
Director pursuant to any SEBI order or order of any such 
authority; and
(iii)	 there has been no change in the circumstances 
affecting their status as Independent Director of the 
Company.
All Independent Directors have affirmed compliance to the 
Code of Conduct for Independent Directors as prescribed 
in Schedule IV to the Act. In the Board’s opinion, the 
Independent Directors are persons of high repute, integrity 
and possess the relevant expertise and experience in their 
respective fields. The Independent Directors have also 
confirmed that they have complied with the Company’s Code 
of Conduct. Independent Directors have also confirmed 
that they have registered their names in the Independent 
Directors’ databank with the Indian Institute of Corporate 
Affairs.
Policy on Appointment and Remuneration
The Board has framed and adopted a Nomination, 
Remuneration and Board Diversity Policy in terms of the 
Section 178 of the Act. The policy, inter-alia, lays down the 
principles relating to appointment, cessation, remuneration 
and evaluation of Directors, Key Managerial Personnel 
and Senior Management Personnel of the Company. The 
Nomination, Remuneration and Board Diversity Policy of 
the Company is available on the website of the Company at 
www.paytm.com/investor-relations/policies-and-guidelines.
Board Evaluation and Familiarisation Programme
The NRC has put in place a robust framework for evaluation 
of the Board, Board Committees and individual Directors, 
including Chairman. During FY 2021-22, the Board has 
carried out an annual performance evaluation of its own 
performance, the Directors individually as well as the 
evaluation of the Committees. A detailed disclosure on 
the framework of Board evaluation has been provided in 
Corporate Governance Report, which forms a part of the 
Annual Report.
A note on the familiarisation programme adopted by the 
Company for orientation and training of the Directors and 
the Board evaluation process undertaken in compliance with 
the provisions of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations is 
provided in the Corporate Governance Report, which forms  
part of the Annual Report.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Business Responsibility Report for FY 2021-22, as stipulated 
under the SEBI Listing Regulations, forms part of the Annual 
Report.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
REPORT
Management 
Discussion 
and 
Analysis 
Report 
for  
FY 2021-22, as stipulated under the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
forms part of the Annual Report.
ANNUAL RETURN
The Annual Return of the Company in form MGT-7 as required 
under Section 92 and Section 134 of the Act read with Rule 
12 of the Companies (Management and Administration) 
Rules, 2014 is available on the website of the Company at 
www.paytm.com/investor-relations/annual-returns.
26
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 46
INTERNAL AUDITORS AND INTERNAL FINANCIAL 
CONTROLS
The Company has appointed KPMG Assurance and 
Consulting Services LLP (KPMG) as an Independent 
Internal Auditors under Section 138 (1) of the Act for the  
FY 2021-22. Internal Audit is governed by the Internal Audit 
Charter approved by the Audit Committee and outcome of 
Internal Audits are submitted and presented in the Audit 
Committee meeting every quarter.
The Company has laid down adequate internal financial 
controls commensurate with the scale and size of the 
operation of the Company. The Company has in place 
adequate policies and procedures for ensuring the orderly 
and effective control of its business, including adherence to 
the Company’s policies, safeguarding its assets, prevention 
and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable financial disclosures.
The Company has an adequate system of internal control 
commensurate with its size and nature of business. These 
systems provide a reasonable assurance in respect of 
providing financial and operational information, safeguarding 
of assets of the Company, adhering to the management 
policies besides ensuring compliance.
HUMAN 
RESOURCE 
MANAGEMENT 
AND 
RELATED DISCLOSURES
Employees Stock Option Schemes
The Company grants share-based benefits to eligible 
employees with a view to attract and retain talent, align 
individual performance with the Company’s objectives, and 
promote increased participation by them in the growth of 
the Company.
The Company has two Employee Stock Option Schemes 
viz. One 97 Employees Stock Option Scheme 2008 (“ESOP 
2008”) and One 97 Employees Stock Option Scheme 2019 
(“ESOP 2019”). After the institution of ESOP 2019 which has 
been effective from September 30, 2019, no fresh options 
have been granted to employees under ESOP 2008.
Post IPO of equity shares of the Company, ESOP 2019 
has been ratified confirmed and amended, as per the 
requirements of 12(1) of the SEBI (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 (“SEBI SBEB 
Regulations 2021”), by the members of the Company 
through Postal Ballot on February 19, 2022.
A statement containing relevant disclosures pursuant to 
Rule 12(9) of the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) 
Rules, 2014 and Regulation 14 of the SEBI SBEB Regulations 
2021 is available on the website of the Company at  
www.paytm.com/investor-relations/agm.
The Company has obtained certificate(s) from Secretarial 
Auditors confirming that ESOP 2008 and ESOP 2019 have been 
implemented in accordance with the SEBI SBEB Regulations 
2021 and resolution(s) passed by the members of the Company. 
The said certificates will be made available for inspection by 
the members electronically during business hours.
Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace
The Prevention of Sexual Harassment (“POSH”) at Workplace 
Policy has been formed under the provisions of The Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013 (“POSH Act”), to prohibit, prevent 
or deter the commission of acts of sexual harassment at 
workplace and to provide the procedure for the redressal of 
complaints pertaining to sexual harassment. The Company 
has also constituted Internal Complaints Committee as per 
the requirements under POSH Act. A detailed disclosure 
on POSH has been provided in the Corporate Governance 
Report which forms part of the Annual Report.
There were no pending POSH complaints during the year and 
no new complaints have been received during FY 2021-22.
Particulars of Employees
As required under Section 197(12) of the Act, read with Rule 
5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, percentage increase in 
remuneration, ratio of remuneration of each Director and 
Key Managerial Personnel to the median of employees’ 
remuneration is annexed as Annexure-IV to this report.
The information required under Section 197(12) of the 
Act read with Rule 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014 forms part of this Report. Further, pursuant 
to first proviso to Section 136(1) of the Act, this Report is 
being sent to the members excluding the said annexure. 
Any member interested in obtaining a copy of the same may 
write to the Company Secretary and Compliance Officer at  
compliance.officer@paytm.com.
RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board at its meeting held on July 5, 2021, had constituted 
the Risk Management Committee. The composition of Risk 
Management Committee and number of meetings held are 
given in the Corporate Governance Report, forming part of 
the Annual Report.
Further, pursuant to Section 134(3)(n) of the Act and 
Regulation 17(9) of SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company 
has formulated and adopted the Risk Assessment and 
Management Policy ("Risk Assessment Policy”).
The aforesaid Risk Assessment Policy establishes the 
philosophy of the Company towards risk identification, 
analysis and prioritization of risks, development of risk 
27
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 47
mitigation plans and reporting on the risk environment of 
the Company. This Risk Assessment Policy is applicable to 
all the functions, departments and geographical locations of 
the Company. The purpose of this Risk Assessment Policy 
is to define, design and implement a risk management 
framework across the Company to identify, assess, manage 
and monitor risks. Aligned to this, purpose is also to identify 
potential events that may affect the Company and manage 
the risk within the risk appetite and provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the achievement of the Company’s 
objectives. This will present a wide approach to ensure that 
key aspects of risk that have a wide impact are considered 
in its conduct of business.
VIGIL MECHANISM/WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY
The Company has established a robust Vigil/ Whistle Blower 
Mechanism and adopted Vigil Mechanism/Whistle Blower 
Mechanism Policy (“WB Policy”) with protective clauses 
for the whistle blowers.  The WB Policy is available on the 
website of the Company at www.paytm.com/investor-
relations/policies-and-guidelines.
A brief note on the highlights of Vigil/ Whistle Blower 
Mechanism Framework forms part of Corporate Governance 
Report, which forms part of the Annual Report.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO
The Foreign Exchange earnings and outgo by the Company 
during the FY 2021-22, under review is as follows:
(Amounts in ₹ Million)
Particulars
2021-22
2020-21
Foreign Exchange 
Earnings 
416.75
155.48
Foreign Exchange 
Outgo
5,149.44
3,850.33
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY AND TECHNOLOGY 
ABSORPTION
The Company has taken following initiatives:
(i)	 Energy Conservation:
 
1. 
Steps taken or impact on Conservation of Energy:
	
	
The operations of the Company are not energy 
intensive. The Company has implemented various 
energy conservation measures at its corporate 
office, such as: 
	
	
(a)	 Installation of LED lights which almost emit no 
heat & UV emissions, across all floors.
	
	
(b)	 All meeting rooms are equipped with lighting 
sensors. In case rooms are not occupied, lights 
go off automatically.
	
	
(c)	 VRV/VRF air-conditioned systems are installed 
that are second generation energy efficient 
products of companies such as Daikin and Blue 
Star.
	
	
(d)	 Installation of VAV controllers in all meeting 
rooms & floor due to which the required 
cooling as per floor occupancy is maintained 
throughout the floor, ultimately reducing the 
overall load of air handling unit and chiller.
	
	
(e)	 Heat resistant facade glasses are installed all 
across the building that restricts the heat & 
maintains the temperature on the floor, which 
also facilitates the natural light throughout the 
day.
	
	
(f)	 All electrical appliances that we are sourcing 
for the office are 5* (star) rated for higher 
energy efficiency.
 
2. 
Steps taken by the Company for Utilising 
Alternate Source of Energy:
	
	
The business operations of the Company are 
not energy-intensive, hence apart from steps 
mentioned 
above 
to 
conserve 
energy, 
the 
management would also explore feasible alternate 
sources of energy.
 
3. 
The Capital Investment on Energy Conservation 
Equipment:
	
	
There is no capital investment on energy 
conservation equipment during the FY 2021-22.
(ii)	Technology Absorption:
	
1.	
Efforts made towards technology absorption: NIL
	
2.	
Benefits 
derived 
like 
product 
improvement, 
cost reduction, product development or import 
substitution: NIL
	
3.	
In case of imported technology (imported during 
the last three years reckoned from the beginning of 
the FY 2021-22)-
	
	
(a)	 the details of technology imported: NIL
	
	
(b)	 the year of import: NIL
	
	
(c)	 whether the technology been fully absorbed: 
NIL
	
	
(d)	 if not fully absorbed, areas where absorption 
has not taken place, and the reasons thereof; 
and
	
4.	
Expenditure 
incurred 
on 
Research 
and 
Development: NIL
28
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 48
	
	
Specific areas in which R&D carried out by the 
Company: The Company has not carried out R&D in 
any specific area
	
	
(a)	 Benefits derived as a result of above R&D: Not 
applicable
	
	
(b)	 Future plan of action: The management of the 
company has not yet decided to carry out any 
R&D.
	
	
(c)	 Expenditure on R&D: Not applicable
AUDITORS AND AUDITOR’S REPORT
Statutory Auditors
The members of the Company, at their 18th AGM held on 
September 28, 2018, had appointed Price Waterhouse 
Chartered Accountants LLP (Firm Registration No. 012754N/
N500016) as Statutory Auditors of the Company to hold 
office from the conclusion of 18th AGM till the conclusion of 
the 23rd AGM of the Company.
The Statutory Auditors have confirmed that they satisfy the 
independence criteria required under the Act and the Code 
of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India.
Secretarial Auditors
PI & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries, were 
appointed as Secretarial Auditors of the Company for FY 
2021-22, as required under Section 204 of the Act and 
Rules made thereunder.
Audit Reports
The Independent Auditors have given unmodified opinion 
on the Company’s Financial Statements for FY 2021-22. The 
Company continues to adopt best practices to ensure the 
regime of unmodified Financial Statements.
The Secretarial Auditors’ Report for FY 2021-22 does not 
contain any qualification, reservation or adverse remark. 
The Secretarial Auditors’ Report is enclosed as Annexure-V 
to this report.
SECRETARIAL STANDARDS
The Company complies with all applicable secretarial 
standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India in terms of Section 118(10) of the Act.
GENERAL
No disclosure or reporting is made with respect to the 
following items, as there were no transactions during FY 
2021-22:
•	
The issue of equity shares with differential rights as to 
dividend, voting or otherwise;
•	
Issue of shares (including sweat equity shares) to 
employees of the Company under any scheme except 
Employees’ Stock Options Schemes referred to in this 
Report;
•	
In terms of the provisions of Section 73 of the Act read 
with the relevant Rules of the Act, the Company had no 
opening or closing balances and also has not accepted 
any deposits during the financial year under review 
and as such, no amount of principal or interest was 
outstanding as on March 31, 2022;
•	
No fraud under Section 143 (12) of the Act has been 
reported by the Auditors to the Audit Committee or the 
Board or Central Government;
•	
The Company does not have any scheme or provision of 
money for the purchase of its own shares by employees 
or by trustees for the benefits of employees;
•	
There is no proceeding pending under the Insolvency 
and Bankruptcy Code, 2016;
•	
There was no instance of onetime settlement with any 
Bank or Financial Institution;
•	
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer has not 
received any remuneration or commission from any of 
its subsidiaries;
•	
There was no revision in the financial statements;
•	
There was no change in the nature of business; 
•	
There were no material changes and commitments 
affecting financial position of the Company between 
the end of the financial year and the date of this report;
•	
No significant or material orders were passed by the 
Regulators or Courts or Tribunals which impact the 
going concern status of the Company and its future 
operations;
•	
Company is not required to maintain cost records under 
Section 148 of the Act;
29
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 49
•	
The Company has not made any downstream 
investments during FY 2021-22 and hence certificate 
under FEMA is not required; and
•	
There was no material subsidiary during the FY 2021-22.
CAUTION STATEMENT
Statement in this Annual Report describing the Company’s 
objectives, expectations or predictions may be forward-
looking within the meaning of applicable securities laws and 
regulations. Actual results may differ materially from those 
expressed in the statement.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
The Board wish to express their sincere appreciation for 
the assistance and co-operation received from the financial 
institutions, banks, government and regulatory authorities, 
stock exchanges, customers, vendors, members during  
FY 2021-22.
The Board also acknowledges and appreciates the 
exemplary efforts and hard work put in by all employees 
who are part of the Paytm family and look forward to their 
continued support and participation in sustaining the growth 
of the Company in the coming years.
For and on behalf of the Board
One 97 Communications Limited
Vijay Shekhar Sharma
	
Chairman, Managing Director and 
Date: May 20, 2022 	
Chief Executive Officer
Place: New Delhi	
DIN: 00466521
30
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 50
Annexure I
AOC-1
SALIENT FEATURES OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF SUBSIDIARY / ASSOCIATES / JOINT VENTURES AS PER COMPANIES ACT, 2013
Part A: Subsidiaries
S. 
No.
Name of 
Subsidiary 
Company
Reporting 
Period
Reporting 
Currency/ 
Exchange 
rate 
Share capital
Reserve & 
Surplus
Total Assets
Total 
Liabilities
Investments*
Turnover#
Profit before 
Taxation
Provision 
for Taxation
Profit After 
Taxation
% 
shareholding
1 
One 97 
Communications 
India Limited 
April to 
March
INR
831.50 
63.21 
916.09 
21.39 
812.12 
7.04 
0.20 
-   
0.20 
100.00%
2 
Paytm 
Entertainment 
Limited
April to 
March
INR
788.74 
1,478.39 
2,269.37 
2.24 
1,397.52 
60.08 
34.27 
8.80 
25.48 
100.00%
3 
Paytm Money 
Limited
April to 
March
INR
2,588.70 
(2,146.19)
2,826.24 
2,383.73 
-   
687.83 
(107.29)
-   
(107.29)
100.00%
4 
Mobiquest Mobile 
Technologies 
Private Limited
April to 
March
INR
3.61 
48.70 
135.58 
83.27 
-   
208.88 
(17.19)
-   
(17.19)
66.34%
5 
Wasteland 
Entertainment 
Private Limited
April to 
March
INR
0.52 
87.91 
710.61 
622.19 
-   
485.74 
(260.87)
-   
(260.87)
100.00%
6 
Urja Money Private 
Limited
April to 
March
INR
31.16 
(49.96)
49.69 
68.49 
1.00 
42.17 
(39.07)
-   
(39.07)
83.34%
7 
Little Internet 
Private Limited
April to 
March
INR
223.83 
(365.70)
6.60 
148.47 
-   
12.03 
(13.93)
-   
(13.93)
62.53%
8 
Orbgen 
Technologies 
Private Limited
April to 
March
INR
9.75 
106.24 
232.07 
116.08 
-   
141.07 
(20.50)
-   
(20.50)
100.00%
9 
Paytm Payment 
Services Limited
April to 
March
INR
500.00 
(643.44)
15,268.03 
14,124.59 
-   
20,622.01 
389.12 
43.78 
345.34 
100.00%
10 
Paytm Insurance 
Broking Private 
Limited
April to 
March
INR
750.00 
(418.13)
360.56 
28.69 
-   
68.01 
(78.64)
-   
(78.64)
100.00%
11 
Paytm Services 
Private Limited
April to 
March
INR
30.00 
48.37 
528.23 
449.86 
-   
2,779.01 
68.00 
25.90 
42.11 
100.00%
12 
Xceed IT Solutions 
Private Limited
April to 
March
INR
0.50 
0.02 
0.65 
0.13 
-   
0.03 
(0.08)
-   
(0.08)
66.34%
(H in million)
31
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 51
S. 
No.
Name of 
Subsidiary 
Company
Reporting 
Period
Reporting 
Currency/ 
Exchange 
rate 
Share capital
Reserve & 
Surplus
Total Assets
Total 
Liabilities
Investments*
Turnover#
Profit before 
Taxation
Provision 
for Taxation
Profit After 
Taxation
% 
shareholding
13 
Nearbuy India 
Private Limited 
April to 
March
INR
9.00 
(170.36)
61.50 
222.86 
-   
100.68 
(35.47)
-   
(35.47)
62.53%
14 
Fincollect Services 
Private Limited 
April to 
March
INR
1.00 
(25.34)
32.66 
57.00 
-   
76.72 
(5.02)
-   
(5.02)
83.34%
15
One97 
Communications 
Nigeria Limited
April to 
March
NGN / 
0.18141
2.96 
(145.84)
60.44 
203.31 
-   
6.47 
(13.23)
                  
0.24 
                  
(13.48)
100.00%
16
One97 
Communications 
FZ-LLC
April to 
March
AED / 
20.5542
20.85 
70.92 
230.52 
138.75 
0.02 
160.25 
6.70 
-   
6.70 
100.00%
17
One97 
Communications 
Rwanda Private 
Limited
April to 
March
RWF / 
0.07354
10.74 
(8.57)
2.50 
0.33 
-   
0.04 
0.13 
-   
0.13 
100.00%
18
One97 
Communications 
Tanzania Private. 
Limited
April to 
March
TZS / 
0.03244
53.97 
6.75 
105.40 
44.68 
-   
56.19 
5.45 
6.91 
(1.47)
100.00%
19
One 97 
Communications 
Bangladesh Private 
Limited
July to 
June
BDT /  
0.86059
4.77 
112.54 
156.52 
39.21 
-   
20.52 
12.17 
-   
12.17 
70.00%
20
One 97 Ivory Coast 
SA
January 
to 
December
XOF /  
0.12819
1.28 
(4.76)
0.49 
3.97 
-   
(1.75)
(1.84)
-   
(1.84)
100.00%
21
One 97 Benin SA
January 
to 
December
XOF / 
0.12819
1.28 
(17.51)
27.53 
43.76 
-   
(1.32)
(6.57)
-   
(6.57)
100.00%
22
One97 Uganda 
Limited
April to 
March
UGX / 
0.02093
27.88 
(25.78)
9.16 
7.06 
-   
(0.81)
(0.99)
-   
(0.99)
100.00%
23
One97 
Communications 
Singapore Private 
Limited
April to 
March
SGD /  
55.7754
549.73 
9,618.35 
10,173.12 
5.04 
10,099.62 
36.80 
2.36 
0.22 
2.15 
100.00%
24
Paytm Labs Inc.
April to 
March
CAD / 
60.4971
367.95 
580.35 
1,197.60 
249.30 
-   
1,673.34 
(247.01)
21.42 
(268.43)
100.00%
(H in million)
32
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 52
S. 
No.
Name of 
Subsidiary 
Company
Reporting 
Period
Reporting 
Currency/ 
Exchange 
rate 
Share capital
Reserve & 
Surplus
Total Assets
Total 
Liabilities
Investments*
Turnover#
Profit before 
Taxation
Provision 
for Taxation
Profit After 
Taxation
% 
shareholding
25
One97 USA Inc.
January 
to 
December
USD / 
75.51
34.76 
(21.58)
36.35 
23.17 
-   
181.51 
10.07 
2.60 
7.47 
100.00%
26
One97 
Communications 
Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.
April to 
March
MYR /  
17.9398
1.79 
24.96 
143.70 
116.95 
-   
104.80 
4.10 
2.35 
1.75 
100.00%
27
One Nine Seven 
Communication 
Nepal Private 
Limited
Shrawan 
to Ashad 
(16 July to 
15 July)
NPR / 
0.61371
3.07 
6.89 
102.53 
92.58 
-   
27.28 
1.80 
0.54 
1.27 
100.00%
28
One Nine Seven 
Digital Solutions Ltd
January 
to 
December
KES /  
0.65241
3.26 
1.13 
4.83 
0.44 
-   
2.37 
1.85 
0.16 
1.69 
100.00%
29
One Nine Seven 
Communications 
Saudi Arabia For 
Communication 
and Information 
Technology
January 
to 
December
SAR / 
20.1079
11.06 
(7.34)
11.03 
7.31 
-   
0.01 
(4.33)
-   
(4.33)
100.00%
* Investments are net off impairment  
# Turnover including other income
None of the above mentioned Companies have proposed dividend in the Current financial year.
(H in million)
33
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 53
Part B: Associates and Joint Venture
Statement pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013 related to Associate Companies 
and Joint Ventures
S. 
No.
Name of Associate / Joint 
venture Company
Paytm 
Payments Bank 
Limited
Paytm Financial 
Services 
Limited
Paytm General 
Insurance 
Limited**
Paytm Life 
Insurance 
Limited**
Paytm First 
Games Private 
Limited 
Admirable 
Software 
Limited
1 
Latest audited / (unaudited) 
Balance Sheet Date
31-03-2022 
Audited
31-03-2022 
Audited
31-03-2022 
Audited
31-03-2022 
Audited
31-03-2022 
Audited
31-03-2022 
Audited
2 
Shares of Associate/Joint 
Ventures held by the company 
on the year end
No.
195,904,900
2,000,000
980,000
49,000
68,233,850
Not Applicable#
 
Amount of Investment in 
Associates/Joint Venture*
H 1,959 million
H 20 million
H 10 million
H 0.5 million
H 1,398 million
Not Applicable#
 
Extend of Holding%
49.00%
48.78%
49.00%
49.00%
55.00%
48.78%
3 
Description of how there is 
significant influence
Holding >20% 
of shareholding
Holding >20% 
of shareholding
Holding >20% 
of shareholding
Holding >20% 
of shareholding
Joint Control
Holding >20% 
of shareholding
4 
Reason why the Associate/ 
Joint Venture is not 
consolidated 
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
5 
Networth attributable to 
Shareholding as per latest 
audited/unaudited Balance 
Sheet
H 1,956 million
H 24 million
Nil
H  0.3 million
Nil
H 14.25 million
6 
Profit/(Loss) for the year (Share 
of Group)
 
 (i). Considered in Consolidation
H (50) million
H (15) million
Nil
H (0.06) million
H (374) million
H (4.85) million
 
 (ii). Not Considered in 
Consolidation
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
H (3) million
Not Applicable
H (589) million
Not Applicable
S. 
No.
Name of Associate / 
Joint venture Company
Paytm 
Insuretech 
Private 
Limited 
Foster 
Payment 
Networks 
Private 
Limited**
Infinity 
Transoft 
Solutions 
Private 
Limited
Eatgood 
Technologies 
Private 
Limited
Paytm First 
Games 
Singapore 
Pte. Ltd.**
Paytm 
Technology 
(Beijing) Co, 
Ltd 
Socomo 
Technologies 
Private 
Limited
1 
Latest audited / 
(unaudited) Balance 
Sheet Date
31-03-2022 
Audited
31-03-2022 
Audited
31-03-2022 
Unaudited
31-03-2022 
Unaudited
31-03-2022 
Audited
31-03-2022 
Unaudited
31-03-2022 
Unaudited
2 
Shares of Associate/ 
Joint Ventures held by 
the company on the 
year end
No.
2,560,938
Not 
Applicable^
3,618 CCPS
2,879 equity 
shares/ 
72,373 CCPS
Not 
Applicable^^
Not 
Applicable^^
28,800 CCPS
 
Amount of Investment 
in Associates/ Joint 
Venture*
Nil
Not 
Applicable^
H 100 million
H 242 million
Not 
Applicable^^
Not Applicable
Nil
 
Extend of Holding%
32.45%
48.80%
26.57%
23.24%
55.00%
55.00%
12.75%
3 
Description of how there 
is significant influence
Holding 
>20% of 
shareholding
Holding 
>20% of 
shareholding
Holding 
>20% of 
shareholding
Holding 
>20% of 
shareholding
Holding 
>20% of 
shareholding
Holding 
>20% of 
shareholding
Representation 
on the board 
of directors 
or equivalent 
governing body 
of the investee;
4 
Reason why the 
Associate/ Joint Venture 
is not consolidated 
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
Equity 
accounting as 
per IndAS-28
34
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 54
S. 
No.
Name of Associate / 
Joint venture Company
Paytm 
Insuretech 
Private 
Limited 
Foster 
Payment 
Networks 
Private 
Limited**
Infinity 
Transoft 
Solutions 
Private 
Limited
Eatgood 
Technologies 
Private 
Limited
Paytm First 
Games 
Singapore 
Pte. Ltd.**
Paytm 
Technology 
(Beijing) Co, 
Ltd 
Socomo 
Technologies 
Private 
Limited
5 
Net worth attributable 
to Shareholding as per 
latest audited/unaudited 
Balance Sheet
H 15 million
H 255 million
H 28 million
H 6 million
H 2.74 million
H 20.93 million
Nil
6 
Profit/Loss for the year 
(Share of Group)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i). Considered in 
Consolidation
Nil
H 10.52 million
H (7.42) million
H (11.47) 
million
H (8.39) million
H 19.81 million
Nil
 
 (ii). Not Considered in 
Consolidation
H (0.24) million
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
*Investments are net off Impairment 
**These companies are yet to commence operations
# Shares are held by an associate company of the Group i.e. Paytm Financial Services Limited
^Shares are held by two associate companies of the Group i.e. Paytm Financial Services Limited and Paytm Payments Bank Limited
^^Shares are held by a Joint Venture of the Group, i.e. Paytm First Games Private Limited
For and on behalf of the Board
One 97 Communications Limited
Vijay Shekhar Sharma
	
Chairman, Managing Director and  
Date: May 20, 2022 	
Chief Executive Officer
Place: New Delhi	
DIN: 00466521
35
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 55
Annexure II
Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility Activities 
for the Financial Year 2021-22
1.	
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company
	
At One 97 Communications Limited (Paytm) we believe that Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) is strongly connected 
with the principles of sustainability and as an organization we should make our decisions based not only on financial 
factors, but also on the social and environmental consequences. 
	
The Board of Directors ( “Board") of the Company has adopted a revised CSR policy by circulation w.e.f. July 10, 2021, 
the same is also available at the website of the Company www.paytm.com/investor-relations/policies-and-guidelines.
2.	
Composition of CSR Committee:
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation/
Nature of Directorship
Number of 
meetings of CSR 
Committee held 
during the year
Number of meetings 
of CSR Committee 
attended during the 
year
1.
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma
Chairman 
(Managing Director and Chief Executive 
Officer)
1
1
2.
Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli Member 
(Non-executive Director)
1
1
3.
Mr. Mark Schwartz
Member 
(Non-executive Independent Director)
1
1
3.	
Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the Board 
are disclosed on the website of the company.
	
Web-link of composition of CSR Committee:
	
www.paytm.com/investor-relations/directors-and-committees
	
Web-link of CSR Policy:
	
www.paytm.com/investor-relations/policies-and-guidelines
	
During FY 2021-22, no CSR projects have been approved by the Board of the Company.
4.	
Provide the details of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the 
Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the report)
	
Not Applicable for FY 2021-22.
5.	
Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the Companies (Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and amount required for set off for the financial year, if any
Sl. 
No.
Financial Year
Amount Available for set-off from 
preceding financial years (in J)
Amount required to be set-off for the 
financial year, if any(in J)
NIL
6.	
Average net profit of the company as per Section 135(5)
	
Not Applicable since the average net profit of last three financial years is Negative.
7.	
(a) Two percent of average net profit of the company as per Section 135(5): NIL
	
(b) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years: NIL
36
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 56
	
(c)	 Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any: NIL
	
(d)	 Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b- 7c): NIL
8.	
(a)	 CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
Total Amount Spent 
for the Financial 
Year (in ₹)
Amount Unspent (in ₹)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent 
CSR Account as per section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per second proviso to section 135(5)
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
Not Applicable
	
(b)	 Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
(12)
S. 
No.
Name 
of the 
project
Item from 
the list of 
activities 
in 
Schedule 
VII to the 
Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/
No)
Location of the 
project
Project 
duration
Amount 
allocated 
for the 
project 
(in J)
Amount 
spent 
in the       
current 
financial 
Year 
(in J)
Amount 
transferred 
to Unspent 
CSR Account 
for the 
project as 
per Section 
135(6) 
(in J)
Mode of 
Implementation 
-  Direct 
(Yes/No)
Mode of 
Implementation 
- Through        
Implementing Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
registration 
number
NIL
	
(c)	 Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
Sl. 
No.
Name 
of the 
project
Item from 
the list of 
activities in 
Schedule 
VII to the 
Act
Local area 
(Yes/No)
Location of the 
project
Amount spent 
for the project 
(in J)
Mode of 
Implementation 
- Direct 
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation 
- Through Implementing 
Agency
State
District
Name
CSR 
registration 
number
NIL
	
(d)	 Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: NIL
	
(e)	 Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: NIL
	
(f)	 Total amount spent for the Financial Year (8b+8c+8d+8e): NIL
	
(g)	 Excess amount for set off, if any
Sl. No.
Particular
Amount (in J)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5)
NIL
(ii)
Total amount spent for the financial year
NIL
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
NIL
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial 
years, if any
NIL
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
NIL
37
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 57
9.	
(a)	 Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years:
Sl. 
No.
Preceding 
Financial 
Year
Amount 
transferred	
 to Unspent	
CSR Account 
under section 
135 (6) (in J)
Amount 
spent in the 
reporting 
Financial 
Year (in J)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per section 135(6), if any
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
financial years 
(in J)
Name of the 
Fund
Amount (in J)
Date of transfer
NIL
	
(b)	 Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s):
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
Sl.
No.
Project ID
Name 
of the 
Project
Financial Year   
in which the 
project was 
commenced
Project 
duration
Total 
amount 
allocated for 
the project 
(in J)
Amount 
spent on 
the project 
in the 
reporting 
Financial 
Year (in J)
Cumulative 
amount spent 
at the end 
of reporting 
Financial Year 
(in J)
Status of 
the project	
-Completed
/Ongoing
NIL
10.	 In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created or acquired 
through CSR spent in the financial year (asset-wise details)
	
(a)	 Date of creation or acquisition of the capital asset(s): Not Applicable
	
(b)	 Amount of CSR spent for creation or acquisition of capital asset: Not Applicable
	
(c)	 Details of the entity or public authority or beneficiary under whose name such capital asset is registered, their 
address etc.: Not Applicable
	
(d)	 Provide details of the capital asset(s) created or acquired (including complete address and location of the 
capital asset): Not Applicable
11.	 Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per section 
135(5): Not Applicable
For and on behalf of the Board
One 97 Communications Limited
	
Madhur Deora 	
Vijay Shekhar Sharma
	
Executive Director, President and 	
Chairman 
 	
Group Chief Financial Officer 	
CSR Committee
	
DIN: 07720350 	
DIN: 00466521
Date: May 20, 2022	
Place: Mumbai 	
Place: New Delhi
38
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 58
Annexure III
FORM NO. AOC 2
(Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of Section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts/arrangements entered into by the Company with related parties referred 
to in sub-section (1) of Section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arm’s length transactions under third 
proviso thereto
1.	
Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm's length basis
	
All arrangements/ transactions entered into by the Company with its related parties during the year were in the ordinary 
course of business and on an arm’s length basis.
2.	
Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm's length basis
	
(a)	 Name(s) of the related party and nature of relationship
	
	
Paytm Payments Bank Limited (PPBL) is an associate of the Company. The Company holds 49% of the paid up share 
capital (directly and through its subsidiary) of PPBL.
	
(b)	 Nature of contracts/arrangements/transactions
	
	
Availing of Services: - Payment Solutions Services, Gratification services, procurement of fast tags, purchase/
lease of assets/equipment and other banking and related services.
	
	
Rendering of Services: - Payment Gateway Services, Agent Institution for Bharat Bill Payment System (BBPS), 
Technology Services, Branding, Advertising and Promotion services, VAS services, sale/lease/exchange of assets/
equipment, reimbursement of expenses, other services including providing any guarantee, in the ordinary course of 
business.
	
(c)	 Duration of the contracts/arrangements/transactions
	
	
Generally, these are long-term contracts duration ranging from 1 to 5 years.
	
(d)	 Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements or transactions including the value, if any:
	
	
i)	
Both the parties shall diligently perform their duties/obligation under the Contract and provide the services in 
timely manner and in accordance with the terms of the work order/agreement; 
	
	
ii)	
Both the parties shall submit invoices on timely basis for the services provided to each other in accordance with 
the terms of arrangement and shall promptly pay the same; 
	
	
iii)	 Both the parties shall be responsible for maintaining data confidentiality and put in place adequate systems to 
safeguard data and information; and
	
	
iv)	 Both parties shall comply with the requirements of local laws and Regulations.
	
	
For value of the transactions refer Related Party Disclosure in the financial statements, which are part of this annual 
report.
	
(e)	 Date(s) of approval by the Board, if any:  The aforesaid transactions were approved by the Board on February 23, 
2022 and were subsequently approved by the members of the Company through Postal Ballot on March 26, 2022. 
Further, the aforesaid contracts/ arrangements entered into with PPBL are in the ordinary course of business and 
on an arm's length basis.
	
(f)	 Amount paid as advances, if any: Refer Related Party Disclosure in the financial statements, which are part of this 
annual report.
For and on behalf of the Board
One 97 Communications Limited
Vijay Shekhar Sharma
	
Chairman, Managing Director and  
Date: May 20, 2022 	
Chief Executive Officer
Place: New Delhi	
DIN: 00466521
39
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 59
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
Percentage increase 
in remuneration in 
FY 2021-22
Rate of remuneration of each 
Director to median remuneration 
of the employees of the Company
Executive Directors
1.
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Managing Director 
and Chief Executive Officer
Nil5
32.27
2.
Mr. Madhur Deora, Whole-time Director and 
Chief Financial Officer6
N.A.
N.A.
Non-executive Directors
3.
Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli
N.A.
N.A.
4.
Mr. Todd Anthony Combs7
N.A.
N.A.
5.
Mr. Douglas Feagin8
N.A.
N.A.
6.
Mr. Munish Ravinder Varma9
N.A.
N.A.
7.
Mr. Jing Xiandong10
N.A.
N.A.
8.
Mr. Michael Yuen Jen Yao11
N.A.
N.A.
Independent Directors
9.
Mr. Neeraj Arora12
N.A.
11.94
10.
Mr. Ashit Ranjit Lilani13
N.A.
11.94
11.
Mr. Mark Schwartz
N.A.
14.92
12.
Mrs. Pallavi Shardul Shroff
N.A.
14.92
Key Managerial Personnel other than Executive 
Directors
13.
Mr. Madhur Deora, Chief Financial Officer14
21%
29.28
14.
Mr. Vikas Garg, Chief Financial Officer15
33%
16.13
15.
Mr. Amit Khera, Company Secretary16
N.A.
11.29
16.
Mr. Arvind Kumar, Company Secretary17
13%
2.50
Annexure IV
Statement of Disclosure of Remuneration Under Section 197(12) of 
Companies Act, 2013, Read with Rule 5(1) Of Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
i.	
The percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive Officer and 
Company Secretary during FY 2021-22 and ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration 
of the employees of the Company for FY 2021-22 are as under:
	
Notes:
	
1. 
The value of performance linked incentive (PLI) / Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) in remuneration of Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) 
represents incentive @ 100% performance level. For effective comparison, the PLI component of their remuneration for FY 2020-21 has also 
been considered @ 100% performance level.
 
2. 
The percentage increase and ratio of the remuneration to the median remuneration of the employees remuneration for executive director 
and KMP’s is computed basis the remuneration excluding perquisite value of stock options exercised during FY 2021-22, value of Gratuity 
and leave encashment.
 
3. 
No remuneration was paid to Non-executive Directors for the financial year 2020-21 and 2021-22. Therefore, the percentage increase in the 
remuneration w.r.t. Non-executive Directors is not applicable.
 
4. 
No remuneration was paid to Non-executive Independent Directors for the financial year 2020-21 and hence, the percentage increase in the 
remuneration in financial year 2021-22 w.r.t. Non-executive Independent Directors is not provided in the table above.
 
5. 
There has been no change in the remuneration of Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma since November 01, 2020 which was approved by the members 
of the Company at their extraordinary general meeting held on March 26, 2021. 
 
6. 
Mr. Madhur Deora was appointed as Whole-time Director with effect from May 20, 2022 designated as ‘Executive Director, President and 
Group Chief Financial Officer’ of the Company and hence, the details as director are not provided in the table above. Further, the requisite 
disclosure has been provided as KMP.
 
7. 
Mr. Todd Anthony Combs ceased to be Director of the Company with effect from June 30, 2021. 
 
8. 
Mr. Douglas Feagin was appointed as Non-executive Director with effect from July 5, 2021. 
 
9. 
Mr. Munish Ravinder Varma ceased to be Director of the Company with effect from March 14, 2022.
 
10. 
Mr. Jing Xiandong ceased to be Director of the Company with effect from July 5, 2021.
40
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 60
 
11. 
Mr. Michael Yuen Jen Yao ceased to be Director of the Company with effect from June 30, 2021. 
 
12. 
Mr. Neeraj Arora was appointed as Non-executive Independent Director with effect from July 11, 2021. Accordingly, the details mentioned 
above pertains to the period from July 11, 2021 to March 31, 2022.
 
13. 
Mr. Ashit Ranjit Lilani was appointed as Non-executive Independent Director with effect from July 05, 2021. Accordingly, the details 
mentioned above pertains to the period from July 05, 2021 to March 31, 2022.
 
14. 
Mr. Madhur Deora had joined the Company w.e.f. October 03, 2016 and was designated as Chief Financial Officer with effect from January 
01, 2022. The details above for Mr. Madhur Deora pertains to the financial year 2021-22. 
 
15. 
Mr. Vikas Garg ceased to be Chief Financial Officer of the Company with effect from December 31, 2021 and ceased to be employee of the 
Company with effect from March 01, 2022. The details above for Mr. Vikas Garg pertains to the period from April 1, 2021 to March 01, 2022.
 
16. 
Mr. Amit Khera had joined the Company w.e.f. April 22, 2021 and was designated as Company Secretary with effect from May 28, 2021. The 
details above for Mr. Amit Khera pertains to the period from April 22, 2021 to March 31, 2022 and includes joining bonus etc.
 
17. 
Mr. Arvind Kumar ceased to be Company Secretary of the Company with effect from May 28, 2021 and ceased to be employee of the 
Company with effect from April 01, 2022. The details above for Mr. Arvind Kumar pertains to the financial year 2021-22.
ii.	
The percentage increase in the median remuneration of the employees in the financial year:  The percentage 
increase in the median remuneration of employees in FY 2021-22 is 18%.
iii.	 The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company:  There were 7,278 employees (excluding subsidiary 
Companies employees) on the rolls of the Company as on March 31, 2022.
iv.	 Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the 
last financial year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification 
thereof and point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration: The 
average increase in the remuneration of employees, excluding remuneration of KMPs, during FY 2021-22 was 14% 
and there has been no change in the remuneration of Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma since November 01, 2020 which was 
approved by the members of the Company at their extraordinary general meeting held on March 26, 2021. Further, no 
remuneration was paid to Non-executive Directors for the financial year 2021-22 and the remuneration paid to Non-
executive Independent Directors for the financial year 2021-22 is within the overall limits as approved by the members 
of the Company at their extraordinary general meeting held on September 02, 2021.
v.	
Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company: The remuneration of Directors 
was as per the policy on Nomination, Remuneration and Board Diversity of the Company.
Note: During the financial year 2021-22, approx. 3,500 employees (Field Sales Executives) were transferred from Paytm Services Private Limited 
(‘PSPL’), a Wholly Owned Subsidiary  company to the rolls of the Company. For effective comparison, the above mentioned disclosures have been 
made without considering the employees transferred from PSPL.
For and on behalf of the Board
One 97 Communications Limited
Vijay Shekhar Sharma
	
Chairman, Managing Director and  
Date: May 20, 2022 	
Chief Executive Officer
Place: New Delhi	
DIN: 00466521
41
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 61
FORM NO. MR - 3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2022
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To, 
The Members, 
One 97 Communications Limited
(L72200DL2000PLC108985)
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to 
good corporate practices by One 97 Communications 
Limited (hereinafter called “the Company”). Secretarial 
Audit was conducted in a manner that provided us a 
reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/
statutory compliances and expressing our opinion thereon. 
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, 
we hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, 
during the audit period covering the financial year ended 
on March 31, 2022, complied with the statutory provisions 
listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper 
Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to 
the extent based on the management representation letter/ 
confirmation, in the manner and subject to the reporting 
made hereinafter.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms 
and returns filed and other records maintained by the 
Company for the financial year ended on March 31, 2022 
(‘period under review’) according to the provisions of:
(i)	 The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the rules made 
thereunder; 
(ii)	 The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made thereunder;
(iii)	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed thereunder;
(iv)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the 
rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent 
of Foreign Direct Investment and Overseas Direct 
Investment; 
(v)	 The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (‘SEBI Act’): -
	
a.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011; 
	
b.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; 
	
c.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018; 
	
d.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021; 
	
e.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021; (not applicable to the Company 
during the period under review)
	
f.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act 
and dealing with client;
	
g.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; (not 
applicable to the Company during the period under 
review)
	
h.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buy - back of Securities) Regulations, 2018; (not 
applicable to the Company during the period under 
review) and
	
i.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as ‘Listing 
Regulations’).
It is further reported that with respect to the compliance of 
other applicable laws, we have relied on the representation 
made by the Company and its officers for system and 
mechanism framed by the Company for compliances under 
Annexure V
42
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 62
general laws (including Labour Laws, Tax Laws, etc.) and 
as informed to us, there are no laws which are specifically 
applicable to the Company.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following: 
(i) 	 Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India wherein the Company is 
generally regular in complying with the standards; and
(ii) 	 The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company 
with the Stock Exchange(s) and Listing Regulations. 
During the period under review, the Company has complied 
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
Standards, etc. as mentioned hereinabove.
We further report that: 
I.	
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly 
constituted 
with 
proper 
balance 
of 
Executive 
Director(s), Non-Executive Directors and Independent 
Directors. The changes in the composition of the 
Board of Directors that took place during the period 
under review were carried out in compliance with the 
provisions of the Act. 
II.	
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule 
the Board Meetings. Agenda and detailed notes on 
agenda were sent at least seven days in advance 
except few Board Meetings and Committee Meetings 
which were held on shorter notice in compliance with 
the applicable laws and a system exists for seeking and 
obtaining further information and clarifications on the 
agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful 
participation at the meeting.
III.	 Majority decisions were carried through and there 
were no instances where any director expressing any 
dissenting views. 
We further report that as informed to us, there are adequate 
systems and processes in the company commensurate with 
the size and operations of the company to monitor and 
ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations 
and guidelines.
Matters of emphasis
i.	
We further noted that the Company has certain foreign 
currency receivables and payables which have been 
outstanding for a period more than required under 
Master Directions issued by the Reserve Bank of India 
(RBI) in relation to export and import of goods and 
services (amended from time to time). In this regard, 
the Company has made respective applications to the 
RBI and the same are pending for approval.
Our report in respect of the abovementioned matters shall 
not be considered as modified or qualified. 
We further report that during the audit period the following 
events have occurred in the Company:
i.	
That during the quarter ended December 31, 2021, 
the Company completed its initial public offer (IPO) of 
85,116,278 equity shares of face value of H 1 each at an 
issue price of H 2,150 per share, comprising fresh issue 
of 38,604,651 shares and offer for sale of 46,511 ,627 
shares by selling shareholders. Pursuant to the IPO, the 
equity shares of the Company were listed on National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) and BSE Limited 
(BSE) with effect from November 18, 2021.
ii.	
That the members in their Annual General Meeting 
(‘AGM’) held on June 30, 2021 approved the sub-
division of equity shares of the Company of H 10 each 
into 10 equity shares of H 1 each. 
iii.	 That the members in their Extra-ordinary General 
Meeting (‘EGM’) held on July 12, 2021 approved the 
declassification of Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma from his 
status as ‘promoter’ of the Company, for any purpose, 
regulatory, statutory, commercial or otherwise, under 
any applicable law.
iv.	 That the members in their EGM held on September 2, 
2021 adopted amendments to One97 Employee Stock 
Option Scheme 2019 in order to give effect to increase 
in existing ESOP Pool from 2,40,94,280 equity options 
to 6,10,94,280 equity options.
v.	
That the members, in their EGM of the Company held on 
September 23, 2021 approved the transfer of Payment 
Aggregator business to Paytm Payments Services 
Limited, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, as 
a going concern on slump sale basis, at an indicative 
book value of approx. H 275 crores-H 350 crores (US 
$ 39 million-US $ 50 million), in order to comply with 
Guidelines on Regulation of Payment Aggregators and 
Payment Gateways issued by RBI via circular dated 
March 17, 2020.
43
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 63
vi.	 That the members in their EGM held on October 4, 
2021 approved the grant of 2,10,00,000 stock options 
under One 97 Employees Stock Option Scheme 2019 to  
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Managing Director and CEO 
of the Company.
vii.	 That the members by way of Postal Ballot dated 
February 19, 2022, granted approval to extend the 
benefits under One 97 Employees Stock Option Scheme 
2019 to the employees of the subsidiary companies and 
group companies of the Company respectively.
viii.	 That the Company had voluntarily filed a compounding 
application under Section 441 read with Section 62(1)
(b) and Section 450 of the Act read with the Rules, 
before the Office of the Regional Director (Northern 
Region), Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘RD’) on 
December 25, 2021. On March 15, 2022, RD has issued 
an order whereby RD has compounded the offence and 
levied compounding fees which has been duly paid and 
aforesaid matter is closed.
For PI & Associates,
Company Secretaries
Nitesh Latwal
Partner
ACS No.: 32109
CP No.: 16276
Date: May 20, 2022 	
PR: 1498/2021
Place: New Delhi 	
UDIN: A032109D000357038
Disclaimer:
This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as “Annexure A” and forms an integral part of this 
report.
44
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 64
Annexure-A
To, 
The Members, 
One 97 Communications Limited
Our Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with this letter:
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our Responsibility is to 
express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit. 
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the 
correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct 
facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable 
basis for our opinion. 
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company. 
4.	
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulation 
and happening of events etc. 
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility 
of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis. 
6.	
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For PI & Associates,
Company Secretaries
Nitesh Latwal
Partner
ACS No.: 32109
CP No.: 16276
Date: May 20, 2022 	
PR: 1498/2021
Place: New Delhi 	
UDIN: A032109D000357038
45
Annual Report 
2022
Board's 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 65
Corporate 
Governance Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 66
Corporate Governance Report
A. COMPANY’S PHILOSOPHY ON CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE 
One 97 Communications Limited (“Company”) believes 
that effective Corporate Governance is key component to 
enhance and maintain stakeholders’ value. The Company 
has adopted sound management practices and adheres to 
the applicable regulatory and legal framework. 
The principles of Corporate Governance are based on 
transparency, accountability, business ethics and focus on 
the sustainable success of the Company. The Company 
understands that a strong and transparent disclosure 
regime is pivotal to shareholders’ ability to exercise their 
rights on an informed basis. The Company constantly 
endeavours to promote mutual trust and co-operation with 
its stakeholders by practicing requisite levels of disclosure 
and transparency, as per applicable laws and its policy(ies).
The Company is committed in following highest level of 
Corporate Governance across all functions. It is in compliance 
with the requirements stipulated under Regulation 17 to 27 
read with Schedule V and sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 
46 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”), as applicable, with regard 
to Corporate Governance.
B. BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Company is a professionally managed company 
functioning under the overall supervision of its Board of 
Directors (“Board”). The Board has the ultimate responsibility 
for the management, general affairs, direction, performance 
and long-term success of the Company’s business. The 
Board is the primary direct stakeholder of the Company, 
influencing its Corporate Governance. 
The Board of the Company consists of eminent individuals 
of diverse backgrounds with skills, experience, and 
expertise in the areas like technology, strategic planning, 
finance etc. The composition and strength of the Board is 
reviewed from time to time to ensure that it remains aligned 
with the statutory as well as the business requirements. 
The brief profile of Directors of the Company is available on 
the website of the Company at www.paytm.com/investor-
relations/directors-and-committees.
Board Composition, Board Meetings and Board 
Attendance 
The Board comprises of an optimum combination of 
Executive, Non-executive, Non-executive Independent 
and Woman Director as required under the Companies Act, 
2013 (“Act”) and SEBI Listing Regulations. As on date of this 
report, the Board comprises of eight (8) Directors, out of 
which four (4) are Non-executive Independent Directors, 
two (2) are Non-executive Directors and two (2) are 
Executive Directors.
During the Financial Year 2021-22 (“FY 2021-22”), the Board 
met Nineteen (19) times i.e. on April 24, 2021, May 28, 2021, 
June 14, 2021, July 5, 2021, July 11, 2021, July 14, 2021, August 
13, 2021, August 30, 2021, September 9, 2021, September 
14, 2021, October 24, 2021, October 26, 2021, November 11, 
2021, November 15, 2021, November 27, 2021, December 
30, 2021, February 4, 2022, March 3, 2022 and March 30, 
2022. The intervening gap between the two consecutive 
Board meetings was within the period prescribed under the 
provisions of the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations. 
During FY 2021-22, the composition and categories of the 
Directors on the Board, their attendance at Board meetings 
and at the last Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) held during FY 
2021-22, and their Directorship(s), Committee Membership(s) 
or Chairpersonship(s) in other companies is provided below:
Name of the Director
Director 
Identification
Number
Category
No. of 
Board 
meetings 
attended 
(total held 
during
tenure)
Whether 
attended 
last AGM
Name of the 
listed entity
where person 
is Director
along with 
category of
Directorships
Number 
of other 
Directorships
Committees 
Membership(s)/
Chairmanship(s)
Chairman
Member
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma
(Chairman)
00466521
Executive 
Director 
(Managing 
Director 
and Chief 
Executive 
Director)
19(19)
Yes
-
3
-
-
Mr. Ravi Chandra 
Adusumalli*
00253613
Non-executive 
Director
18(19)
No
-
2
-
2
47
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 67
Name of the Director
Director 
Identification
Number
Category
No. of 
Board 
meetings 
attended 
(total held 
during
tenure)
Whether 
attended 
last AGM
Name of the 
listed entity
where person 
is Director
along with 
category of
Directorships
Number 
of other 
Directorships
Committees 
Membership(s)/
Chairmanship(s)
Chairman
Member
Mr. Neeraj Arora
07221836
Non-executive 
Independent 
Director
12(14)
No
-
-
-
-
Mr. Todd Anthony 
Combs
08343520
Non-executive 
Director
3(3)
NA
-
-
-
-
Mr. Madhur Deora
07720350
Executive 
Director
NA
NA
NA
8
1
1
Mr. Douglas Feagin
07868696
Non-executive 
Director
13(15)
No
Zomato Limited 
- Nominee 
Director
1
-
-
Mr. Ashit Ranjit Lilani
00766821
Non-executive 
Independent 
Director
14(15)
No
-
-
-
-
Mrs. Pallavi Shardul 
Shroff
00013580
Non-executive 
Independent 
Director
15(19)
Yes
Asian Paints 
Limited - 
Independent 
Director
Apollo Tyres 
Limited - 
Independent 
Director
Interglobe 
Aviation Limited 
- Independent 
Director
PVR Limited - 
Independent 
Director
4
-
4
Mr. Mark Schwartz
07634689
Non-executive 
Independent 
Director
18(19)
No
-
-
-
-
Mr. Munish Ravinder 
Varma**
02442753
Non-executive 
Director
13(18)
No
-
1
-
-
Mr. Jing Xiandong@
07155397
Non-executive 
Director
3(3)
No
-
-
-
-
Mr. Michael Yuen Jen 
Yao@@
08451050
Non-executive 
Director
3(3)
NA
-
-
-
-
Notes: 
1. 
The Directorships, held by Directors, as mentioned above, do not include the Directorships held in private companies, foreign body corporates 
and the Company. 
2. 
The Chairmanship and Membership of Audit Committee and Stakeholders Relationship Committee of public companies (excluding the Company) 
have been considered. The details of Committees Memberships provided above do not include Chairmanships of Committees as the same has 
been provided separately. 
3. 
The details with respect to appointment and cessation of Directors, during FY 2021-22 is as follows:
 
• 
Mr. Todd Anthony Combs, Non-executive Director ceased to be a Director w.e.f. June 30, 2021;
 
• 
Mr. Michael Yuen Jen Yao, Non-executive Director and Mr. Ting Hong Kenny Ho, Alternate Director to Mr. Yao ceased to be a Director w.e.f. 
June 30, 2021;
 
• 
Mr. Jing Xiandong, Non-executive Director and Mr. Guoming Cheng, Alternate Director to Mr. Xiandong ceased to be a Director w.e.f. July 5, 2021;
 
• 
Mr. Ashit Ranjit Lilani, was appointed as Non-executive Independent Director w.e.f. July 5, 2021; 
 
• 
Mr. Douglas Feagin was appointed as Non-executive Director w.e.f. July 5, 2021;
 
• 
Mr. Vikas Agnihotri was appointed as an Alternate Director to Mr. Munish Ravinder Varma w.e.f. July 5, 2021;
48
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 68
 
• 
Mr. Mukul Arora Alternate Director to Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli ceased to be Director w.e.f. July 7, 2021; 
 
• 
Mr. Neeraj Arora was appointed as Non-executive Independent Director w.e.f. July 11, 2021; 
 
• 
Mr. Vivek Kumar Mathur was appointed as an Alternate Director to Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli w.e.f. July 11, 2021; and
 
• 
Mr. Munish Ravinder Varma Non-executive Director and Mr. Vikas Agnihotri, Alternate Director to Mr. Varma ceased to be Directors w.e.f. 
March 14, 2022. 
4. 
As on March 31, 2022, apart from the following Directors, no other Director of the Company holds shares in the Company:
 
• 
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer holds 57,673,032 equity shares;
 
• 
Mr. Mark Schwartz, Non-executive Independent Director holds 935,970 equity shares; and
 
• 
Mr. Neeraj Arora, Non-executive Independent Director holds 75,000 equity shares. 
 
Further, none of the Non-executive Director of the Company including Non-executive Independent Directors holds any convertible instruments in 
the Company.
5. 
Mr. Madhur Deora has been appointed as Additional Director and Whole-time Director designated as ‘Executive Director, President and Group 
Chief Financial Officer ’ w.e.f. May 20, 2022. 
6. 
None of the Directors are relatives of any other Director and each one of them are Independent to each other.
* 
Nine meetings were attended by Mr. Vivek Kumar Mathur as an Alternate Director to Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli.
** 
Nine meetings were attended by Mr. Vikas Agnihotri as an Alternate Director to Mr. Munish Ravinder Varma.
@ 
Two meetings were attended by Mr. Guoming Cheng as an Alternate Director to Mr. Jing Xiandong.
@@ 
One meeting was attended by Mr. Ting Hong Kenny Ho as an Alternate Director to Mr. Michael Yuen Jen Yao.
Key Board Skills, Expertise and Competencies 
The Board has identified the following core skills, expertise and competencies which are required for Board members to 
function effectively: 
Area
Particulars
Business and Management
Knowledge, experience, or meaningful exposure of the business environment, 
economic conditions, cultures across various geographical markets, industry verticals, 
and regulatory jurisdictions, and a broad perspective on market opportunities.
Corporate Governance
Experience in designing, finalizing and implementing good corporate governance 
practices, reviewing compliance and governance practices for a sustainable growth 
of the company, supporting a strong Board base and management accountability, 
transparency, and protection of shareholders interests.
Technology and Digital Expertise
Understanding the use of digital/ information technology, ability to anticipate 
technological driven changes and disruption impacting business and appreciation of 
the need of cyber security and controls across the organisation.
Leadership
Strong leadership experience, practical understanding of organizations, processes, 
strategic thinking and vision, decision making and risk management. Demonstrated 
strengths in developing talent, succession planning, driving change and long-term 
growth.
Financial
Knowledge and skills in accounting, finance, treasury management, oversight for risk 
management and internal controls, understanding of capital allocation, funding and 
financial reporting processes.
Diversity
Appreciation of varied cultures, ethnicity, geography, gender, age, philosophies, life 
experiences and other diversity perspectives that expand the Board’s understanding of 
the needs of diverse stakeholders and a better ability to respond to changes.
Strategic Planning and Analysis
Appreciation of long-term trends, strategic choices and experience in guiding and 
leading management teams to make decisions in uncertain environments.
Marketing and Innovation
Ability to lead the strategies to grow market share, build brand awareness and 
equity, enhance brand reputation, and to leverage consumer insights for business 
benefits. Ability and experience to leverage the innovation in products and categories 
in consumer space for growth and profitability and understanding of Research and 
Development activities.
49
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 69
The skills as possessed by each director are given below:
Skills
Mr. Vijay 
Shekhar 
Sharma
Mr. Ravi 
Chandra 
Adusumalli
Mr. Neeraj 
Arora
Mr. Madhur 
Deora
Mr. Douglas 
Feagin
Mr. Ashit 
Ranjit Lilani
Mr. Mark 
Schwartz
Mrs. Pallavi 
Shardul 
Shroff
Business and 
Management








Corporate 
Governance








Technology 
and digital 
expertise








Leadership








Financial








Diversity








Strategic 
Planning and 
Analysis








Marketing and 
Innovation








Information Flow to the Board Members 
The Board meets at regular intervals to discuss and decide 
on business strategies/ policies and review the financial 
performance of the Company. The detailed agenda along 
with the relevant notes and other material information, 
are sent in advance individually to each Director and in 
exceptional cases, placed at the meeting of the Board in 
accordance with the applicable laws. This ensures timely 
and informed decisions by the Board. Information is 
provided to the Board Members on a continuous basis for 
their review, inputs and approval. The Company’s quarterly 
and annual financial results/ statements are first presented 
to the Audit Committee and subsequently placed before the 
Board for its approval. 
In addition, various matters such as appointment of Directors 
and Key Managerial Personnel, details of investor grievances, 
important managerial decisions, material positive/ negative 
developments and legal/ statutory matters are presented to 
the respective Committee and placed for noting / approval of 
the Board subsequently upon recommendation by respective 
Committee. 
The documents containing Unpublished Price Sensitive 
Information are submitted to the Board at a shorter notice, 
as per the general consent taken from the Board, from time 
to time.
Post-Meeting Follow-Up System 
The important decisions taken at the Board and Committee 
meetings are tracked till their closure and an ‘action taken 
report’ is placed before each Board and Committee meeting 
for noting.
Information available to the Board 
The Board has complete access to all relevant information 
within the Company. The information shared with the Board 
on a regular basis, inter-alia, includes: 
•	
Annual operating plans, capital budgets and updates 
thereon;
•	
Regular business updates; 
•	
Quarterly/ annual consolidated and standalone financial 
results/ financial statements of the Company and its 
operating divisions or business segments; 
•	
Minutes of meetings of the Board and Board Committees, 
Resolutions passed by circulation and Board minutes of 
the unlisted subsidiary companies; 
•	
Information on recruitment/remuneration of Senior 
Management Personnel at one level below the Board; 
•	
Material important show cause, demand, prosecution 
notices and penalty notices, if any. Fatal or serious 
accidents, dangerous occurrences, material effluent or 
pollution problems, if any; 
•	
Details of any acquisition, joint venture or collaboration 
agreement; 
•	
Human resource updates and strategies; 
•	
Quarterly treasury reports; 
•	
Quarterly compliance certificates with the ‘Exceptions 
Reports and Material Litigations’ , which includes non-
compliance of any regulatory, statutory nature or SEBI 
Listing Regulations; 
•	
Review of vigil/ whistle blower mechanism and framework 
on Prevention of Sexual Harassment of Women at 
Workplace;
•	
Disclosures received from Directors; 
•	
Proposals requiring strategic guidance and approval of 
the Board; 
•	
Related party transactions; 
•	
Update on Corporate Social Responsibility activities, if 
any; and 
•	
Report on action taken on last Board meeting decisions.
50
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 70
The details of remuneration paid to Directors during FY 2021-22 are given below:
(Amount ₹ in Million)
Directors
Sitting Fees
Remuneration
Commission
Perquisites Allowances
Variable 
Bonus
Total
Executive Directors
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma
-
37.14
-
2.86
-
-
40.00
Mr. Madhur Deora
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Non-executive Directors 
Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mr. Todd Anthony Combs
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mr. Douglas Feagin
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mr. Vivek Kumar Mathur
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mr. Munish Ravinder Varma
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mr. Jing Xiandong
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mr. Michael Yuen Jen Yao
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Non-executive Independent Directors 
Mr. Neeraj Arora
-
10.70
-
-
-
-
10.70
Mr. Ashit Ranjit Lilani
-
10.94
-
-
-
-
10.94
Mrs. Pallavi Shardul Shroff
-
18.50
-
-
-
-
18.50
Mr. Mark Schwartz
-
18.50
-
-
-
-
18.50
Total
-
95.78
-
2.86
-
-
98.64
Independent Directors
The Board of the Company consists of Four (4) Non-executive 
Independent Directors. In the opinion of Board, all the Non-
executive Independent Directors fulfil the conditions as 
specified in the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations, and are 
Independent of the management.
Familiarisation Programmes for Independent 
Directors 
The familiarisation programmes include periodic presentations 
at the Board and Committee meetings on business and 
performance updates of the Company, business strategy, 
nature of the industry in which the Company operates, 
business model and risk involved including their roles, rights, 
responsibility in the Company etc.
The details of familiarisation programmes imparted to 
Non-executive Independent Directors are available on 
the website of the Company at www.paytm.com/investor-
relations/policies-and-guidelines. 
Succession Planning 
The Company has an effective mechanism for succession 
planning which focuses on orderly succession of Directors 
and other senior management personnel. The Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee implements this mechanism 
in concurrence with the Board.
Performance Evaluation
In compliance with the provisions of the Act, SEBI Listing 
Regulations and the guidance note issued by SEBI on board 
evaluation, annual performance evaluation of the Board 
is undertaken where the Board formally assesses its own 
performance with the aim to improve the effectiveness of 
the Board and the Board Committees.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee, in its 
meeting held on February 4, 2022, deliberated and 
approved the structured process, format, attributes, 
criteria and questionnaires as a whole, for the performance 
evaluation of the Board, its Committees and Individual 
Directors including the additional questions for evaluation 
of Chairman, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, 
and Non-executive Independent Directors, keeping in view 
the Board priorities and best practices.
All the Directors participated and completed the performance 
evaluation process for FY 2021-22. The results of evaluation 
were discussed in the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee meeting and Board meeting held on May 20, 2022. 
Directors’ Remuneration 
In terms of the provisions of the Act and SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the Board has approved a Policy on Nomination, 
Remuneration and Board Diversity for Directors, Key 
Managerial Personnel and other Senior Management 
Personnel and includes the criteria of making payments 
to Non-executive Directors. The Company’s remuneration 
policy is directed towards rewarding performance based on 
a periodic review of the achievements. 
The Policy is available on the website of the Company 
at	
www.paytm.com/investor-relations/policies-and-
guidelines. The Company affirms that the remuneration paid 
to the Directors is as per terms laid out in the Nomination, 
Remuneration and Board Diversity Policy.
Notes:
1. 
As per the Nomination, Remuneration and Board Diversity policy, the Non-executive Independent Directors are entitled to such remuneration 
as approved by the Board within the overall limits approved by the members and permissible under the applicable provisions of the Act. No 
remuneration was paid to the Non-executive Directors for FY 2021-22. 
51
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 71
2. 
The requisite details relating to appointment/ cessation of Directors have been provided as footnotes to the table under section ‘Board Composition, 
Board Meetings and Board Attendance’ of this report.
3. 
The Remuneration includes the Company’s contribution to the Provident Fund, if any. Liability for gratuity and leave encashment is provided on 
actuarial basis for the Company as a whole, the amount pertaining to the Executive Directors is not ascertainable and, therefore, not included. 
4. 
During FY 2021-22, Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma and Mr. Madhur Deora were granted 21,000,000 stock options and 222,222 stock options, 
respectively, on September 9, 2021 under ESOP Scheme 2019 of the Company, at an exercise price of ₹ 9 per option, with a vesting period as 
mentioned in their respective ESOP grant letters. None of other Director have been granted any stock options during FY 2021-22. 
5. 
The Board on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, re-appointed Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma, as ‘Managing 
Director and Chief Executive Officer’ of the Company at its meeting held on May 20, 2022, for a further period of five years w.e.f. December 19, 
2022 to December 18, 2027. The detailed terms of his appointment covering remuneration is subject to approval of the members and forms part 
of the Notice of the ensuing 22nd AGM. 
6. 
The Board of Directors on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, appointed Mr. Madhur Deora, as an Additional 
Director in the capacity of Whole-time Director designated as ‘Executive Director, President and Group Chief Financial Officer’ of the Company at 
its meeting held on May 20, 2022, for a period of five years w.e.f. May 20, 2022 to May 19, 2027. The detailed terms of his appointment covering 
remuneration is subject to approval of the members and forms part of the Notice of the ensuing 22nd AGM. Further, no remuneration in FY 2021-22 
has been paid to him in the capacity of Director.
7. 
Except for the remuneration payable to the Non-executive Independent Directors in accordance with the applicable laws and with the approval 
of the members, there is no pecuniary or business relationship between the Non-executive Directors vis-à-vis the Company. Mrs. Pallavi Shardul 
Shroff, Non-executive Independent Director of the Company, is the Joint-Managing Partner of M/s. Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co., Solicitors 
& Advocates, which renders professional services to the Company. The quantum of fees paid to M/s. Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co. is an 
insignificant portion of their total revenue, thus, M/s. Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co., is not to be construed to have any material association 
with the Company.
8. 
The terms of severance, notice period and termination for the Executive Directors of the Company will be governed by terms and conditions of 
the agreement entered with the Company. Further, no notice period or severance fee is paid to any other Director.
C. BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board has constituted various Committees to focus 
on specific areas and make informed decisions within 
the authority delegated to each of the Committee. Each 
Committee of the Board is guided by its Charter/ terms of 
reference, which defines the scope, powers and composition 
of the Committee. All decisions and recommendations of the 
Committees are placed before the Board for its information 
or approval. 
During the FY 2021-22, the Board has accepted all the 
recommendations of its Committees. 
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
As on March 31, 2022, Audit Committee comprised three 
(3) Directors out of whom two (2) are Non-executive 
Independent Directors. Mr. Mark Schwartz, Non-executive 
Independent Director and Chairman of the Committee 
holds a Master’s degree in Business Administration from 
the Harvard University and possesses expert financial 
knowledge. All the members of the Committee are financially 
literate and have necessary accounting and financial 
management expertise/background.
The Company Secretary of the Company is the Secretary 
to the Committee. The composition of the Audit Committee 
meets the requirements of Section 177 of the Act and 
Regulation 18 of SEBI Listing Regulations.
During FY 2021-22, the Committee met thirteen (13) times 
i.e. on April 21, 2021, May 27, 2021, July 5, 2021, July 14, 
2021, August 12, 2021, August 30, 2021, September 9, 2021, 
September 14, 2021, October 24, 2021, November 27, 2021, 
December 30, 2021, February 4, 2022 and March 30, 2022.
The composition of the Committee and attendance of 
members at the Committee meetings held during FY 2021-
22, are given below:
Name
Category
Number of 
meetings 
attended (total 
held during 
tenure)
Mr. Mark Schwartz, 
Chairman*
Non-executive 
Independent Director
12(13)
Mr. Ravi Chandra 
Adusumalli
Non-executive 
Director
12(13)**
Mrs. Pallavi Shardul 
Shroff
Non-executive 
Independent Director
11(13)
* Designated as Chairman of Audit Committee with effect from July 5, 2021.
** Two meetings were attended by Mr. Vivek Kumar Mathur as an 
Alternate Director to Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli.
Terms of Reference
During FY 2021-22, the following terms of reference of the 
Audit Committee were approved by the Board on July 5, 
2021:
A. The Audit Committee shall have powers, including the 
following: 
	
(i)	 Investigate any activity within its terms of reference; 
	
(ii)	 Seek information from any employee; 
	
(iii)	 Obtain outside legal or other professional advice; 
and 
52
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 72
	
(iv)	 Secure attendance of outsiders with relevant 
expertise, if it considers necessary. 
B. 
The role of the Audit Committee shall include the 
following: 
	
(1)	 Oversight of financial reporting process and the 
disclosure of financial information relating to the 
Company to ensure that the financial statements 
are correct, sufficient and credible; 
	
(2)	 Recommendation to the Board of Directors of 
the Company for appointment, re-appointment, 
replacement, 
remuneration 
and 
terms 
of 
appointment of auditors of the Company and the 
fixation of the audit fee; 
	
(3)	 Approval of payment to statutory auditors for any 
other services rendered by the statutory auditors; 
	
(4)	 Examining and reviewing, with the management, 
the annual financial statements and auditor's 
report thereon before submission to the Board for 
approval, with particular reference to: 
	
	
(a)	 Matters required to be included in the director’s 
responsibility statement to be included in the 
Board’s report in terms of clause (c) of sub-section 
3 of Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013; 
	
	
(b)	 Changes, if any, in accounting policies and 
practices and reasons for the same; 
	
	
(c)	 Major accounting entries involving estimates 
based on the exercise of judgment by 
management;
	
	
(d)	 Significant adjustments made in the financial 
statements arising out of audit findings; 
	
	
(e)	 Compliance with listing and other legal 
requirements relating to financial statements; 
	
	
(f)	 Disclosure of any related party transactions; and 
	
	
(g)	 Modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report. 
	
(5)	 Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly, 
half-yearly and annual financial statements before 
submission to the Board for approval; 
	
(6)	 Reviewing, with the management, the statement 
of uses / application of funds raised through an 
issue (public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, 
etc.), the statement of funds utilized for purposes 
other than those stated in the Offer document / 
prospectus / notice and the report submitted by 
the monitoring agency monitoring the utilisation 
of proceeds of a public or rights issue, and making 
appropriate recommendations to the Board to take 
up steps in this matter;
	
(7)	 Reviewing and monitoring the auditor’s independence 
and performance, and effectiveness of audit process; 
	
(8)	 Approval of any subsequent modification of 
transactions of the Company with related parties 
and omnibus approval for related party transactions 
proposed to be entered into by the Company, 
subject to the conditions as may be prescribed; 
	
	
Explanation: The term "related party transactions" 
shall have the same meaning as provided in 
Clause 2(zc) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and/
or the applicable Accounting Standards and/or the 
Companies Act, 2013. 
	
(9)	 Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments; 
	
(10)	Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company, 
wherever it is necessary; 
	
(11)	Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk 
management systems; 
	
(12)	Reviewing, with the management, performance of 
statutory and internal auditors, and adequacy of 
the internal control systems; 
	
(13)	Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, 
if any, including the structure of the internal audit 
department, staffing and seniority of the official 
heading the department, reporting structure 
coverage and frequency of internal audit; 
	
(14)	Discussion with internal auditors of any significant 
findings and follow-up thereon; 
	
(15)	Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations 
by the internal auditors into matters where there 
is suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of 
internal control systems of a material nature and 
reporting the matter to the Board; 
	
(16)	Discussion with statutory auditors before the audit 
commences, about the nature and scope of audit 
as well as post-audit discussion to ascertain any 
area of concern; 
	
(17)	Looking into the reasons for substantial defaults 
in the payment to depositors, debenture holders, 
shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared 
dividends) and creditors; 
	
(18)	Reviewing the functioning of the whistle blower 
mechanism; 
	
(19)	Monitoring the end use of funds raised through 
public offers and related matters; overseeing the 
vigil mechanism established by the Company, 
with the chairman of the Audit Committee directly 
hearing grievances of victimization of employees and 
directors, who used vigil mechanism to report genuine 
concerns in appropriate and exceptional cases;
	
(20)	Approval of appointment of chief financial officer 
(i.e., the whole-time finance Director or any other 
person heading the finance function or discharging 
53
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 73
that function) after assessing the qualifications, 
experience and background, etc. of the candidate; 
	
(21)	Reviewing the utilization of loans and/or advances 
from/investment by the holding company in the 
subsidiary exceeding ₹1,000,000,000 or 10% of 
the asset size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower 
including existing loans/ advances/ investments 
existing as on the date of coming into force of this 
provision; 
	
(22)	Considering and commenting on rationale, cost-
benefits and impact of schemes involving merger, 
demerger, amalgamation etc., on the listed entity 
and its shareholders; and
	
(23)	Carrying out any other function required to be 
carried out by the Audit Committee as may be 
decided by the Board and/or as provided under the 
Companies Act, 2013, the SEBI Listing Regulations 
or any other applicable law, as and when amended 
from time to time.
C. The Audit Committee shall mandatorily review the 
following information: 
	
•	
Management discussion and analysis of financial 
condition and results of operations; 
	
•	
Statement of significant related party transactions 
(as defined by the Audit Committee), submitted by 
management; 
	
•	
Management letters / letters of internal control 
weaknesses issued by the statutory auditors; 
	
•	
Internal audit reports relating to internal control 
weaknesses; 
	
•	
The 
appointment, 
removal 
and 
terms 
of 
remuneration of the chief internal auditor; and
	
•	
Statement of deviations in terms of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations: 
	
	
a)	
quarterly statement of deviation(s) including 
report of monitoring agency, if applicable, 
submitted to stock exchange(s) where the 
Equity Shares are proposed to be listed in 
terms of the SEBI Listing Regulations; and
	
	
b)	 annual statement of funds utilised for purposes 
other than those stated in the offer document/ 
prospectus/ notice in terms of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations.
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
As on March 31, 2022, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee comprised three (3) Non-executive Directors out 
of whom two (2) are Non-executive Independent Directors. 
Mr. Ashit Ranjit Lilani, Non-executive Independent Director 
is Chairman of the Committee.
During FY 2021-22, the following changes occurred in the 
composition of the Committee:
a)	
Mr. Jing Xiandong, Non-executive Director ceased to 
be the member of the Committee with effect from July 
5, 2021;
b)	
Mr. Mark Schwartz and Mrs. Pallavi Shardul Shroff, 
Non-executive Independent Directors ceased to be the 
members of the Committee with effect from July 11, 2021;
c)	
Mr. Ashit Ranjit Lilani, Non-executive Independent 
Director was inducted as Chairman of the Committee, 
and Mr. Neeraj Arora, Non-executive Independent 
Director and Mr. Douglas Feagin, Non-executive 
Director were inducted members of the Committee with 
effect from July 11, 2021; and
d)	 Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli ceased to be the member 
of the Committee with effect from January 1, 2022.
The Company Secretary of the Company is the Secretary 
to the Committee. The composition of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee meets the requirements of 
Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 19 of SEBI Listing 
Regulations. 
During FY 2021-22, the Committee met Eleven (11) times 
i.e. on May 28, 2021, July 5, 2021, July 11, 2021, July 14, 
2021, August 2, 2021, August 13, 2021, September 9, 2021, 
October 24, 2021, November 27, 2021, December 30, 2021 
and February 4, 2022.
The composition of the Committee and attendance of 
members at the Committee meetings held during FY 2021-
22, are given below:
Name
Category
Number of 
meetings 
attended (total 
held during 
tenure)
Mr. Ashit Ranjit 
Lilani, Chairman*
Non-executive 
Independent Director
8(8)
Mr. Neeraj Arora
Non-executive 
Independent Director
7(8)
Mr. Ravi Chandra 
Adusumalli
Non-executive 
Director
   9(10)**
Mr. Douglas Feagin Non-executive 
Director
7(8)
Mr. Mark Schwartz
Non-executive 
Independent Director
3(3)
Mrs. Pallavi 
Shardul Shroff
Non-executive 
Independent Director
3(3)
Mr. Jing Xiandong
Non-executive 
Director
1(1)
* Designated as Chairman of Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
with effect from July 5, 2021.
** Three meetings were attended by Mr. Vivek Kumar Mathur as an 
Alternate director to Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli.
54
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 74
The details relating to remuneration of Directors, as required 
under SEBI Listing Regulations have been given under a 
separate section, viz. ‘Directors Remuneration’ in this Report.
Terms of Reference
During FY 2021-22, the following terms of reference of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee were approved by 
the Board on July 11, 2021 and further revised on February 
4, 2022 respectively:
•	
Formulation of the criteria for determining qualifications, 
positive attributes and independence of a director and 
recommend to the Board of Directors of the Company 
a policy relating to the remuneration of the directors, 
key 
managerial 
personnel 
and 
other 
employees 
(“Remuneration Policy”); 
•	
Formulation of criteria for evaluation of performance of 
independent directors and the Board; 
•	
Devising a policy on Board diversity; 
•	
Identifying persons who are qualified to become 
directors and who may be appointed in senior 
management in accordance with the criteria laid down, 
and recommend to the Board their appointment and 
removal and carrying out evaluation of every director’s 
performance (including independent director);
•	
Whether to extend or continue the term of appointment 
of the independent director, on the basis of the report 
of performance evaluation of independent directors; 
•	
Recommend to the board, all remuneration, in whatever 
form, payable to senior management; 
•	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee, while 
formulating the Remuneration Policy, should ensure 
that
	
a)	
the level and composition of remuneration be 
reasonable and sufficient to attract, retain and 
motivate directors of the quality required to run the 
Company successfully;
	
b)	
relationship of remuneration to performance is clear 
and meets appropriate performance benchmarks; and
	
c)	
remuneration to directors, key managerial personnel 
and senior management involves a balance between 
fixed and incentive pay reflecting short and long 
term performance objectives appropriate to the 
working of the Company and its goals.
•	
Perform such functions as are required to be performed 
by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021, as amended, including the following: 
	
a)	
administering the One 97 Employee Stock Option 
Scheme 2008, One 97 Employee Stock Option 
Scheme 2019 (the “Plans”);
	
b)	 determining 
the 
eligibility 
of 
employees 
to 
participate under the Plans;
	
c)	
granting options to eligible employees and 
determining the date of grant;
	
d)	 determining the number of options to be granted to 
an employee;
	
e)	 determining the exercise price under the Plans; and 
	
f)	
construing and interpreting the Plans and any 
agreements defining the rights and obligations of 
the Company and eligible employees under the 
Plans, and prescribing, amending and/or rescinding 
rules and regulations relating to the administration 
of the Plans.
	
g)	 Approving allotment of shares consequent to 
exercise of employee stock options under the Plans.
•	
Frame suitable policies, procedures and systems to 
ensure that there is no violation of securities laws, as 
amended from time to time, including:
	
a)	
the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; 
and
	
b)	 the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices Relating to the Securities Market) 
Regulations, 2003, by the trust, the Company and 
its employees, as applicable.
•	
Carrying out any other activities as may be delegated 
by the Board of Directors of the Company, functions 
required to be carried out by the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee as provided under the 
Companies Act, 2013, SEBI Listing Regulations or any 
other applicable law, as and when amended from time 
to time.
STAKEHOLDERS RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
As on March 31, 2022, the Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee comprised three (3) members out of whom two 
(2) are Non-executive Independent Directors. Mrs. Pallavi 
Shardul Shroff, Non-executive Independent Director is 
Chairperson of the Committee.
During FY 2021-22, the following changes occurred in the 
composition of the Committee:
a)	
Mr. 
Mark 
Schwartz, 
Non-executive 
Independent 
Director, Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli, Mr. Munish 
Ravinder Varma and Mr. Jing Xiandong, Non-executive 
Directors, ceased to be the members of the Committee 
with effect from July 5, 2021; and
b)	 Mrs. Pallavi Shardul Shroff, Non-executive Independent 
Director was inducted as Chairperson of the Committee, 
Mr. Ashit Ranjit Lilani, Non-executive Independent 
55
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 75
Director and Mr. Douglas Feagin, Non-executive 
Director were inducted as members of the Committee, 
with effect from July 5, 2021.
The Company Secretary of the Company is the Secretary 
to the Committee. The composition of the Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee meets the requirements of Section 
178 of the Act and Regulation 20 of SEBI Listing Regulations. 
During FY 2021-22, the Committee met once on March 3, 
2022. The composition of the Committee and attendance 
of members at the Committee meeting held during FY 2021-
22, are given below:
Name
Category
Number of 
meetings 
attended (total 
held during 
tenure)
Mrs. Pallavi Shardul 
Shroff, Chairperson*
Non-executive 
Independent Director
1(1)
Mr. Douglas Feagin
Non-executive 
Director
1(1)
Mr. Ashit Ranjit 
Lilani
Non-executive 
Independent Director
1(1)
* Designated as Chairperson of Stakeholders Relationship Committee 
with effect from July 5, 2021.
Terms of Reference
During FY 2021-22, the following terms of reference of the 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee were approved by the 
Board on July 5, 2021:
•	
Considering and looking into various aspects of interest 
of shareholders, debenture holders and other security 
holders;
•	
Resolving the grievances of the security holders of the 
listed entity including complaints related to transfer/
transmission of shares, non-receipt of annual report, 
non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of new/
duplicate certificates, general meetings etc.;
•	
Giving effect to allotment of equity shares, approval of 
transfer or transmission of equity shares, debentures or 
any other securities;
•	
Issue of duplicate certificates and new certificates on 
split/consolidation/renewal, etc.; 
•	
Review of measures taken for effective exercise of 
voting rights by shareholders;
•	
Review of adherence to the service standards adopted 
by the listed entity in respect of various services being 
rendered by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent; 
•	
Review of the various measures and initiatives taken by 
the listed entity for reducing the quantum of unclaimed 
dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend 
warrants/annual reports/statutory notices by the 
shareholders of the company; and
•	
Carrying out any other function required to be carried 
out by the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee as 
contained in SEBI Listing Regulations or any other 
applicable law, as and when amended from time to time.
Compliance Officer
In terms of the requirement of SEBI Listing Regulations,  
Mr. Amit Khera, Company Secretary, is Compliance Officer 
of the Company.
Nature of Complaints and Redressal Status
During FY 2021-22, the complaints and queries received by 
the Company were general in nature, which included issues 
relating to non-receipt of refunds in the Initial Public Offer 
(“IPO”), IPO shares, annual reports and others, which were 
resolved by the Company to the satisfaction of the investors.   
The details of investors complaints received after the listing of 
equity shares of the Company and redressed, are as follows:
Status of Investor Complaints*
Pending at the beginning of the financial year
Nil
Received during the financial year
40
Disposed off during the financial year
38
Pending at the end of the financial year*
2
Complaints not resolved to the satisfaction of investor 
Nil
* The complaints pending at the end of the FY 2021-22 were redressed 
within due timelines in compliance with SEBI Listing Regulations and in 
accordance with Investor Grievance policy of the Company.
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
In compliance with the requirements of SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the Risk Management Committee was 
constituted by the Board on July 5, 2021 and as on March 
31, 2022, the Risk Management Committee comprised five 
(5) members out of whom three (3) are Non-executive 
Independent Directors. Mr. Mark Schwartz, Non-executive 
Independent Director is Chairman of the Committee.
The Company Secretary of the Company is the Secretary to 
the Committee. The composition of the Risk Management 
Committee meets the requirements of Regulation 21 of SEBI 
Listing Regulations. 
During FY 2021-22, the Committee met once on March 3, 
2022. The composition of the Committee and attendance 
of members at the Committee meeting held during FY 2021-
22, are given below:
Name
Category
Number of 
meetings 
attended (total 
held during 
tenure)
Mr. Mark Schwartz, 
Chairman*
Non-executive 
Independent Director
1(1)
Mr. Vijay Shekhar 
Sharma
Executive Director
1(1)
56
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 76
Name
Category
Number of 
meetings 
attended (total 
held during 
tenure)
Mrs. Pallavi Shardul 
Shroff
Non-executive 
Independent Director
0(1)
Mr. Ashit Ranjit 
Lilani
Non-executive 
Independent Director
1(1)
Mr. Deepankar 
Sanwalka
President
1(1)
* Designated as Chairman of Risk Management Committee with effect 
from July 5, 2021.
Subsequent to the financial year ended March 31, 2022, 
Mr. Deepankar Sanwalka ceased to be the member of the 
Committee with effect from May 20, 2022.
Terms of Reference
During FY 2021-22, the following roles and responsibility 
of the Risk Management Committee were approved by the 
Board on July 5, 2021:
•	
Formulation of a detailed risk management policy which 
shall include: 
	
a)	
a framework for identification of internal and 
external risks specifically faced by the listed 
entity, in particular including financial, operational, 
sectoral, sustainability (particularly, ESG related 
risks), information, cyber security risks or any other 
risk as may be determined by the Risk Management 
Committee; 
	
b)	 measures for risk mitigation including systems and 
processes for internal control of identified risks; and 
	
c)	
business continuity plan.
•	
Ensure that appropriate methodology, processes and 
systems are in place to monitor and evaluate risks 
associated with the business of the Company; 
•	
Monitor and oversee implementation of the risk 
management policy, including evaluating the adequacy 
of risk management systems; 
•	
Periodically review the risk management policy, at 
least once in two years, including by considering the 
changing industry dynamics and evolving complexity, 
and recommend for any amendment or modification 
thereof, as necessary; 
•	
Keep the Board of directors of the Company informed 
about the nature and content of its discussions, 
recommendations and actions to be taken;  
•	
Review the appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer (if any); 
•	
To implement and monitor policies and/or processes for 
ensuring cyber security; and
•	
Any other similar or other functions as may be laid down 
by Board from time to time and/or as may be required 
under applicable law, as and when amended from time 
to time, including the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
As on March 31, 2022, Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) 
Committee comprised three (3) members out of whom one 
(1) is Non-executive Independent Director. Mr. Vijay Shekhar 
Sharma, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of 
the Company is Chairman of the CSR Committee.
The Company Secretary of the Company is the Secretary to 
the CSR Committee. The composition of the CSR Committee 
meets the requirements of Section 135 of the Act. 
During FY 2021-22, the Committee met once on March 3, 
2022. The composition of the CSR Committee and attendance 
of members at the CSR Committee meeting held during FY 
2021-22, are given below:
Name
Category
Number of 
meetings 
attended (total 
held during 
tenure)
Mr. Vijay Shekhar 
Sharma, Chairman*
Executive Director
1(1)
Mr. Ravi Chandra 
Adusumalli
Non-executive 
Director
     1(1)**
Mr. Mark Schwartz
Non-executive 
Independent Director
1(1)
* Designated as Chairman of CSR Committee with effect from July 5, 2021. 
** Attended by Mr. Vivek Kumar Mathur as an Alternate director to  
Mr. Ravi Chandra Adusumalli.
Key Responsibilities of the CSR Committee
During FY 2021-22, the CSR Committee was authorised to 
perform the following functions, as approved by the Board 
on July 5, 2021:
a)	
Formulate and recommend to the Board, a Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy which shall indicate 
the activities to be undertaken by the Company as 
specified in Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013, 
as amended;
b)	 Review and recommend the amount of expenditure to 
be incurred on the activities referred to in clause (a);
c)	
Monitor the corporate social responsibility policy of the 
Company and its implementation from time to time; and
d)	 Any other matter as the Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee may deem appropriate after approval of the 
Board or as may be directed by the Board from time to 
time and/or as may be required under applicable law, as 
and when amended from time to time.
57
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 77
D. General Body Meetings
Annual General Meetings
The details of the Annual General Meetings held during last three years and the special resolution(s) passed there at, are as 
follows:
Financial Year
Location
Date
Time
Special Resolutions Passed
2020-21
Through Video 
Conference
June 30, 2021
11:00 A.M. (IST) 1.	 Re-appointment of Mrs. Pallavi Shardul 
Shroff, as an Independent and Non-
executive Director.
2.	 Remuneration of Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma, 
Managing Director for FY 2021-22.
3.	 Subscription 
of 
optionally 
convertible 
debentures issued by VSS Holdings Private 
Limited.
4.	 Grant of inter-corporate deposit/ loan to VSS 
Investco Private Limited.
2019-20
First Floor, Devika 
Tower, Nehru 
Place, New 
Delhi-110019
September 25, 
2020
10:00 A.M. (IST) None
2018-19
First Floor, Devika 
Tower, Nehru 
Place, New 
Delhi-110019
September 30, 
2019
9:00 A.M. (IST)
1.	 Increase in ESOP Pool for grant options and 
amendment in One 97 Employees Stock 
Option Scheme, 2008.
2.	 Creation and adoption of new One 97 
Employees Stock Option Scheme 2019.
3.	 Remuneration of Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma, 
Managing Director for Financial Year 2019 - 20.
Postal Ballot
During FY 2021-22, two (2) Postal Ballots were conducted by the Company for obtaining the approvals of the members. The 
details of the Postal Ballots conducted are mentioned below:
Postal Ballot 1:
Date of Postal Ballot Notice: December 30, 2021
Voting period: January 21, 2022 at 9:00 A.M. (IST) to February 19, 2022 at 5:00 P.M. (IST).
Date of Declaration of Results: February 22, 2022
Voting Pattern:
Item 
No.
Description
Type of 
Resolution
No. of 
Votes 
Polled
Votes in Favour
Votes Against
No. of Votes
%
No. of Votes
%
1.
Amendment and Ratification of One 97 
Employees Stock Option Scheme 2019
Special 
Resolution
567,108,164
526,788,300
92.89
40,319,864
7.11
2.
Approval to extend the benefits under One 
97 Employees Stock Option Scheme 2019 
to the employees of subsidiary companies 
of the Company
Special 
Resolution
567,108,171
526,550,547
92.85
40,557,624
7.15
3.
Approval to extend the benefits under One 
97 Employees Stock Option Scheme 2019 
to the employees of group companies of 
the Company
Special 
Resolution
567,108,164
526,550,289
92.85
40,557,875
7.15
58
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 78
Postal Ballot 2:
Date of Postal Ballot Notice: February 23, 2022
Voting period: February 25, 2022 at 9:00 A.M. (IST) to March 26, 2022 at 5:00 P.M. (IST)
Date of Declaration of Results: March 29, 2022
Voting Pattern:
Item 
No.
Description
Type of 
Resolution
No. of Votes 
Polled
Votes in Favour
Votes Against
No. of Votes
%
No. of Votes
%
1.
Approval 
of 
Material 
Related 
Party 
Transactions with Paytm Payments Bank 
Limited
Ordinary 
Resolution
126,940,519
91,310,862
71.93
35,629,657
28.07
2.
Approval for right to nominate Directors 
as required under Article 113 of Article of 
Association of the Company
Special 
Resolution
506,736,800
492,509,821
97.19
14,226,979
2.81
Procedure for Postal Ballot
In compliance with Regulation 44 of SEBI Listing Regulations, 
Section 108, 110 and other applicable provisions of the Act 
read with the Companies (Management and Administration) 
Rules, 2014 read with applicable general circulars issued by 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs and circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/
CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 dated May 13, 2022 issued by SEBI, 
the Postal Ballot Notice was sent only by way of email to 
those members whose e-mail ids were registered with the 
Depository Participants / Link Intime India Private Limited, 
Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (“RTA”). The 
Physical copy of the Notice along with Postal Ballot Form 
and pre-paid business reply envelope were not sent to the 
members for these postal ballots in accordance with MCA 
Circulars.
The Company had appointed RTA for providing the e-voting 
facility to all its members. The Company also published 
a notice in the newspapers declaring the details and 
requirements as mandated by the Act and applicable rules.
Voting Rights were in proportion to the shares held by 
members whose names appeared in the Register of 
Members/ List of Beneficial Owners in the total paid-up 
equity share capital of Company an on the cut-off date. 
Members were requested to vote through remote e-voting 
only on or before the close of voting period.
Mr. Ankit Singhi (C.P No 16274), Company Secretary in 
Practice and Partner of PI & Associates, was appointed as 
scrutinizer for conducting the postal ballot/e-voting process 
in a fair and transparent manner.
The scrutinizer completed the scrutiny and submitted his 
report to the Chairman and consolidated results of the voting 
were announced by the Chairman. Thereafter, the results 
of the postal ballot along with the scrutiniser’s report were 
displayed at the registered office of the Company, hosted 
at www.paytm.com/investor-relations/postal-ballot, RTA’s 
website and were also communicated to stock exchanges.
No resolution is proposed for approval of the members by 
way of Postal Ballot as on the date of this report.
E. CODES, POLICIES AND FRAMEWORKS
Code of Conduct
In compliance with the provisions of the Act and Regulation 
17 of SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has framed 
and adopted a code of conduct for all Directors and Senior 
Management Personnel (“Code”). 
The Code is applicable to all the Board members and 
Senior Management personnel. The Code is circulated to 
all Board members and Senior Management Personnel and 
its compliance is affirmed by them annually. Besides, the 
Company also procures a quarterly confirmation of material 
financial and commercial transactions entered into by 
Senior Management Personnel with the Company that may 
have a potential conflict of interest. A declaration signed 
by the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, 
regarding affirmation of the compliance with the Code by 
Board members and Senior Management for FY 2021-22, is 
provided in Annexure A to this report.
The Code is available on website of the Company at www.
paytm.com/investor-relations/policies-and-guidelines.
Insider Trading
In compliance with the provisions of SEBI (Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 (“PIT Regulations”), 
the Company has formulated the Code of Conduct for 
prohibition of Insider Trading (“PIT Code”) to regulate and 
monitor trading by Designated Persons (“DPs”) and their 
immediate relatives. The Company has voluntarily adopted a 
regime, which is stricter than what is statutorily prescribed, 
to comply with PIT Regulations in letter and spirit e.g. all the 
transactions done by DPs require pre-clearance irrespective 
of value or quantum. The PIT Code, inter-alia, lays down the 
procedures to be followed by DPs while trading/ dealing 
in Company shares and while sharing Unpublished Price 
Sensitive Information (“UPSI”). The PIT Code includes, inter-
alia, the obligations and responsibilities of DPs, obligations 
and responsibilities of the Company to maintain a structural 
digital database, a mechanism for prevention of insider 
trading and handling of UPSI, process to familiarise the DPs 
59
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 79
with the sensitivity of UPSI, educate the DPs in relation 
to transactions which are prohibited and manner in which 
permitted transactions shall be carried out.
The Company conducts frequent workshops/ training 
sessions and periodically circulates informative e-mails to 
educate and sensitise the DPs to familiarise them with the 
provisions of the PIT Code and compliance requirements.
Corporate Policies 
The Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations, stipulate 
formulation of certain policies for all listed companies. 
The Website links of key policies / codes adopted by the 
Company are provided in Annexure B to this report.
Risk Management 
The Company has a robust Risk Management Framework 
to identify, evaluate business risks and opportunities. 
This framework seeks to create transparency, minimize 
adverse impact on the business objectives and enhance 
the Company’s competitive advantage. The business risk 
framework defines the risk management approach across 
the enterprise at various levels including documentation and 
reporting. The framework has different risk models which 
help in identifying risks trend, exposure and potential impact 
analysis at a Company level as also separately for business 
segments. The Company has identified various risks and also 
has mitigation plans for each risk identified. The Company’s 
insurable assets like server, computer equipment, office 
equipment, furniture & fixtures etc. have been adequately 
insured against major risks. The Company has also taken 
appropriate Directors’ & Officers’ Liability Insurance Policy to 
protect the Company from unexpected exigencies. The Risk 
Management Committee of the Board has been constituted 
to periodically review the Risk Management Framework and 
approve the necessary changes required therein.
F.  MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
Effective communication of information is an essential 
component of Corporate Governance. It is a process of 
sharing information, ideas, thoughts, opinions and plans to 
all stakeholders which promotes management-shareholder 
relations. The Company believe that all stakeholders should 
have access to complete information regarding its position 
to enable them to accurately assess its future potential. 
Accordingly, the Company disseminates information on its 
operations and initiatives on a regular basis.
a)	 Quarterly Financial Results
	
The quarterly financial results are published in widely 
circulated national newspapers such as Financial Express 
(English daily) and Jansatta (Hindi daily - vernacular). 
The said results are promptly submitted to the Stock 
Exchanges for display on their respective websites 
and are also available on the Company’s website at 
www.paytm.com/investor-relations/financial-results.
b)	 Official News Releases
	
Official news releases and media releases are sent 
to Stock Exchanges and available on the Company’s 
website at www.paytm.com/investor-relations/stock-
exchange-submissions.
c)	 Earning Calls & Presentations to Institutional 
Investors/ Analysts 
	
The Company organises earnings conference call with 
analysts and investors after the announcement of 
financial results. The transcript and audio of quarterly 
earnings call is uploaded on the Company’s website as 
well as filed with the stock exchanges where the equity 
shares of the Company are listed, which is accessible to 
all the members and general public. 
d)	 Website: The Company’s website www.paytm.com/
investor-relations 
contains 
a 
dedicated 
section 
for Investors where annual reports, earnings press 
releases, stock exchange filings, quarterly reports, and 
policies are available, apart from the details about the 
Company, Board of Directors and its Committees.
e)	 E-mail: The Company has a designated e-mail ID 
compliance.officer@paytm.com exclusively for investor 
services.
Date, Time and Venue of the AGM
Friday, August 19, 2022 at 04:30 P.M. (IST) through Video 
Conferencing/Other Audio Visual Means facility 
CIN
L72200DL2000PLC108985
ISIN
INE982J01020
Registered office Address
First Floor, Devika Tower, Nehru Place, New Delhi 110019, India
Financial Calendar
April 1 to March 31
Adoption of Financial Results (Tentative Schedule, subject to change)
For the quarter ending June 30, 2022
August 5, 2022
For the quarter and half year ending September 30, 2022
November 4, 2022
For the quarter and nine months ending December 31, 2022
February 3, 2023
G. General Shareholder Information
60
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 80
For the fourth quarter and financial year ending March 31, 
2023
May 19, 2023
Trading window closure for Financial Results
From the 1st day after close of quarter till the completion 
of 48 hours after the Financial Results becomes generally 
available
Date of Book Closure
N.A.
Dividend and Dividend Payment Date
N.A. 
Equity Shares Listing, Stock Code and Listing Fee Payment
Name and address of the Stock Exchange
Scrip code
Status of fee paid for 
FY 2021-22
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Exchange Plaza, C-1 Block G Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra, Mumbai - 400001
PAYTM
Yes
BSE Limited 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai - 400001
543396
Yes
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent
All the functions related to share registry, both in physical and electronic form, are handled by the Company’s Registrar and 
Share Transfer Agent (“RTA”) i.e. Link Intime India Private Limited as per the particulars mentioned in the communication 
details section of this report.
Share Transfer System 
During FY 2021-22, Link Intime India Private Limited, RTA of the Company ensured compliance with all the procedural 
requirements with respect to transfer, transmission and transposition of shares and formalities with respect to name deletion, 
sub-division, consolidation, renewal, exchange and endorsement of share certificates.
SEBI has mandated that securities of listed companies can be transferred only in dematerialised form. Accordingly, the 
Company / it’s RTA are not accepting any lodgement of transfer of shares in physical form. Members holding shares in 
physical form are advised to avail the facility of dematerialisation. However, investors are not barred from holding shares in 
physical form. Transfers in electronic form are much simpler and quicker as the members have to approach their respective 
depository participants and the transfers are processed by NSDL/ CDSL, as the case may be, with no requirement of any 
separate communication to be made to the Company.
Stock Market Data of the Company for the period from November 18, 2021 to March 31, 2022
Month
BSE
NSE
High Price
Low Price
Volume
High Price
Low Price
Volume
Nov-21
1,961.1
1,271.3
7,831,604
1,955.0
1,271.0
109,875,308
Dec-21
1,724.0
1,290.1
2,566,521
1,725.0
1,290.0
39,936,992
Jan-22
1,349.0
875.5
6,634,753
1,350.0
875.0
94,014,585
Feb-22
994.0
771.2
3,798,470
994.0
771.2
41,340,898
Mar-22
816.5
520.0
12,803,860
817.5
521.0
199,112,158
Performance of Company’s share price in comparison to BSE Sensex and NSE Nifty for the period 
from November 18, 2021 to March 31, 2022
Month
Paytm - BSE
Paytm - NSE
BSE SENSEX
NSE Nifty
Average Closing
Average Closing 
Average Closing 
Average Closing 
Nov-21
1,648.2
1,648.1
58,166.9
17,337.5
Dec-21
1,448.3
1,448.4
57,663.1
17,174.3
Jan-22
1,079.5
1,079.4
59,586.8
17,770.6
Feb-22
878.6
878.6
57,697.5
17,225.9
Mar-22
645.4
645.4
56,404.4
16,864.7
61
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 81
Distribution of Shareholding by number of shares held as on March 31, 2022 
Shareholding Pattern as on March 31, 2022 
No. of Equity Shares 
held
No. of Shareholders
% to holders
No. of Shares
% of total shares
1 - 5,000
 1,280,595 
 99.94 
 44,484,962 
 6.86 
5,001 - 10,000
 376 
 0.03 
 2,668,788 
 0.41 
10,001 - 20,000
 184 
 0.01 
 2,546,808 
 0.39 
20,001 - 30,000
 54 
 0.00 
 1,387,565 
 0.21 
30,001 - 40,000
 23 
 0.00 
 805,904 
 0.12 
40,001 - 50,000
 21 
 0.00 
 961,719 
 0.15 
50,001 - 1,00,000
 37 
 0.00 
 2,617,308 
 0.40 
100,001 & above
 101 
 0.01 
 593,088,360 
 91.45 
Total
12,81,391
 100.00 
 648,561,414 
 100.00 
Category
Total Shares
Total Percent
Promoter and Promoter Group
Indian
0.00
0.00
Foreign
0.00
0.00
Total Promoter Shareholding 
0.00
0.00
Public Shareholding
Institutional Investor
Mutual Funds
 6,819,790 
1.05
Insurance Companies
 95,216 
0.01
Alternate Investment Funds - III
 23,500 
0.00
Foreign Portfolio Investors (Corporate)
 28,680,948 
4.42
Non-Institutional Investor
Clearing Members
 1,758,477 
0.27
Other Bodies Corporate
 33,320,337 
5.14
Foreign Company
 461,513,275 
71.16
Hindu Undivided Family
 1,015,392 
0.16
Foreign Nationals
 1,201,660 
0.19
Non-Resident Indians
 1,081,790 
0.17
Non-Resident (Non Repatriable)
 1,802,791
0.28
Public
 110,128,944 
16.98
Trusts
 717,382 
0.11
Body Corporate - Ltd Liability Partnership
 384,782 
0.06
NBFCs registered with RBI
 17,130 
0.00
Total
 648,561,414 
100.00
Dematerialisation of Shares and Liquidity
The break-up of shares held in physical and dematerialised 
mode as on March 31, 2022 is as follows:
Shareholding
No. of Shares
% of Total
Physical Mode
 2,500,937 
0.39
Dematerialised Mode
 646,060,477 
99.61
Total
 648,561,414 
100.00
Outstanding GDRs/ ADRs/ Warrants or any 
Convertible instruments, conversion date and 
likely impact on equity 
The Company has not issued any GDRs / ADRs / Warrants 
or any convertible instruments in the past and hence, as on 
March 31, 2022, the Company does not have any outstanding 
GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any convertible instruments.
Commodity Price Risk or Foreign Exchange Risk 
and Hedging activities: 
Commodity Risk:
The Company is not exposed to any commodity price risk, 
and hence the disclosure under clause 9(n) of Part C of 
Schedule V in terms of the format prescribed vide SEBI 
circular dated November 15, 2018, is not applicable. 
Foreign Exchange Risk:
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value of future 
cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of changes 
62
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 82
Particulars
Contact
Email
Address
For all Investor related 
matters
Mr. Amit Khera
Company Secretary and 
Compliance Officer
compliance.officer@paytm.com
One Skymark, Tower D, 
Plot No. H-10B, Sector-98, 
Noida-201304
For queries relating to 
Financial Statements
Mr. Anuj Mittal  
Vice President - Investor 
Relations
ir@paytm.com
For Registrar and 
Share Transfer Agent 
Queries
Mr. Vishal Kumar
Link lntime India Private 
Limited
delhi@linkintime.co.in
Link Intime India Pvt limited
Noble Heights, 1st Floor, Plot 
NH 2, C-1 Block LSC,
Near Savitri Market, Janakpuri, 
New Delhi - 110058
Ph.NO. - 011-49411000
in foreign exchange rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk 
of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the 
Company’s operating and investing activities (when revenue 
or expense/capex is denominated in a foreign currency).
The fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may have 
potential impact on the statement of profit and loss where 
assets / liabilities are denominated in a currency other than 
the functional currency of the Company. 
During FY 2021-22, the Company did not undertake any 
derivative hedging activity and managed its foreign exchange 
Communications Details
risk through a mix of close monitoring, management review 
and natural hedge.
Plant Locations
Being a service provider company, the Company has no 
plant locations. 
Credit Rating 
The company has not issued any non convertible securities 
and hence, no credit ratings were required to be obtained 
during FY 2021-22. 
Related Party Transactions 
During FY 2021-22, the Company has entered into material 
Related Party Transactions, with Paytm Payments Bank 
Limited (“PPBL”) for which prior Audit Committee and members 
approval was obtained. The Related Party Transactions with 
PPBL, being operational and critical in nature, play a significant 
role in Company’s / its subsidiaries business(es). 
The Related Party Transactions with PPBL shall not, in any 
manner, be detrimental to the interest of minority members 
and is in the best interest of the Company and its members. 
The Related Party Transactions with PPBL, doesn’t have a 
potential conflict of interest between the Company and its 
Directors or Management or their relatives.
The Related Party Transactions are disclosed in Notes to 
Accounts. A copy of the policy on dealing with Related Party 
Transactions is available on the Company’s website at www.
paytm.com/investor-relations/policies-and-guidelines. 
Details of Non-compliance with regard to Capital 
Markets during the Last Three Years 
The Equity shares of the Company are listed and traded on 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited 
w.e.f. November 18, 2021. The Company has complied with the 
applicable rules, regulations and guidelines prescribed by SEBI 
and Stock Exchanges, from time to time. Subsequent to the 
date of its listing, there were no penalties or strictures imposed 
on the Company by the Stock Exchange(s), SEBI and/ or any 
other statutory authorities on matters relating to capital market.
Vigil Mechanism/Whistle Blower Policy 
The Company has adopted and established a robust vigil/
whistle blower mechanism. Since it is also a statutory 
requirement, therefore, in compliance with Section 177(9) 
of the Act read with Rule 7 of the Companies (Meeting 
of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 22 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board approved the 
establishment of the said mechanism by formulating and 
adopting a ‘Vigil Mechanism/ Whistle Blower Mechanism 
Policy’ (“WB Policy”). The WB Policy provides a framework 
for responsible and secure whistle blowing/vigil mechanism. 
The Policy covers disclosure / reporting of any unethical 
behaviour (actual or suspected), event of misconduct, 
fraud or any act against the Company’s interest as well as 
any breach of the Company’s Code of Conduct which may 
have taken place or is suspected to have taken place in the 
Company.
The WB Policy encourages the employee(s) of the Company 
to raise genuine concerns about any malpractices in the 
workplace without fear of retaliation or victimisation. 
Additionally, the mechanism also facilitates reporting of 
genuine concerns about any unethical / improper conduct 
of any employee of the Company to the management/ 
Audit Committee of the Company. Adequate safeguards 
have been provided in the Policy to protect any director(s) 
and employee(s) who are availing of this against any kind 
of victimisation and also provides for direct access to the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee in appropriate cases.
63
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 83
All disclosures made by Whistle Blowers under this 
mechanism/WB Policy are recorded and thoroughly 
investigated by the Company’s designated vigilance officer 
(either himself/herself or by involving any other officer of 
the Company or through an outside agency). A Whistle 
Blower also has the option to avail direct access to the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee for reporting inter-alia any 
instance of unethical behaviour or violation of Company’s 
Code of Conduct, which instance is investigated as per the 
procedure set out in the Policy. The identity of the Whistle 
Blower is kept confidential to the extent possible and 
permitted under law. Any employee assisting in investigation 
of any complaint shall also be protected to the same extent 
as the Whistle Blower.
The link of WB Policy is provided in Annexure B to this report. 
During FY 2021-22, a total of 18 Whistle Blower complaints 
were received and taken up for investigation, of which 
17 complaints were resolved as on March 31, 2022. One 
complaint is pending/under the process of investigation by 
the Company. None of the Whistle Blowers has been denied 
access to the Audit Committee.
Prevention of Sexual Harassment of Women at 
Workplace 
The Company does not tolerate verbal or physical conduct 
likely to create an intimidating, offensive, or hostile 
environment for employees. Harassment of any kind 
including sexual harassment is forbidden in the Company 
and every employee has the right to be protected against 
it. The Company is committed to create a healthy working 
environment that enables employees to work without fear 
of prejudice, gender bias and sexual harassment. The 
Company believes that all employees of the Company have 
the right to be treated with dignity. 
The  Prevention of Sexual Harassment (“POSH”) at Workplace 
Policy has been formed under the provisions of The Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013, to prohibit, prevent or deter the 
commission of acts of sexual harassment at workplace and 
to provide the procedure for the redressal of complaints 
pertaining to sexual harassment. 
In case of any allegations of sexual harassment are 
substantiated by the Internal Complaints Committee (ICC), 
appropriate disciplinary action shall be taken against 
the accused. Disciplinary action may include transfer, 
withholding promotion, suspension or even dismissal. This 
action shall be in addition to any legal recourse sought by 
the complainant.
There were no pending POSH complaints at the beginning 
of the year and no new complaints have been received 
during FY 2021-22.
Details of utilization of funds raised through 
preferential allotment or qualified institutions 
placement as specified under Regulation 32 (7A) 
of SEBI Listing Regulations 
During FY 2021-22, the Company has not raised funds 
through preferential allotment or qualified institutional 
placement.
No Disqualification Certificate from Practicing 
Company Secretary
A certificate from PI & Associates, Practicing Company 
Secretaries, pursuant to Schedule V of the Listing 
Regulations, confirming that none of the Directors on the 
Board of the Company has been debarred or disqualified 
from being appointed or continuing as director of the 
Company by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority 
as on March 31, 2022, is provided in Annexure C to this 
report.
Compliance Certificate from Secretarial Auditor 
regarding compliance of conditions of Corporate 
Governance
A certificate from PI & Associates, Practising Company 
Secretaries, pursuant to Schedule V of the Listing 
Regulations, affirming compliance of Corporate Governance 
during FY 2021-22, is provided in Annexure D to this report.
CEO and CFO Certification 
The certificate required under Regulation 17(8) of SEBI 
Listing Regulations, duly signed by the Chief Executive 
Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company was 
placed before the Board. The same is provided as Annexure 
E to this report.
Consolidated Fees paid to Statutory Auditor 
Total fees for all services paid by the Company and its 
subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to the statutory 
auditors, is given below:
Particulars
Amount  
(₹ in Mn)
Audit Fees*
10.40
IPO related Certifications and Reports*#
46.85
Other Services*
 8.40
Total
65.65
*Includes out-of-pocket expenses
#Includes recoverable from selling shareholders pursuant to agreement 
with selling shareholders for sharing of IPO expenses.
Loans and Advances in the nature of Loans 
to Firms/Companies in which Directors are 
interested by Name and Amount 
The details of loans and advances in the nature of loans 
to firms/companies in which Directors are interested, forms 
part of notes to the financial statements.
64
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 84
Disclosures with respect to Demat Suspense Account/ Unclaimed Suspense Account 
In accordance with the requirement of Regulation 34(3) and Part F of Schedule V to SEBI Listing Regulations, details of the 
equity shares lying in the Unclaimed Suspense Account are as follows:
Particulars
No. of 
Shareholders
No. of Shares
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense 
account lying at the beginning of the year*
10
83
Number of shareholders who approached listed entity for transfer of shares 
from suspense account during the year 
9
77
Number of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from suspense 
account during the year
9
77
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense 
account lying at the end of the year
1
6
*represents the numbers as on the date of listing of shares of the Company. 
The Company confirms that the voting rights on these 
shares shall remain frozen till the rightful owner of such 
shares claims the shares.
Compliance with the Mandatory Requirements 
of SEBI Listing Regulations 
The Board periodically reviews the compliance of all 
applicable laws. The Company has complied with all the 
mandatory requirements of SEBI Listing Regulations relating 
to Corporate Governance. 
Compliance with Discretionary Requirements: 
a) Communication to Shareholders 
	
Quarterly and annual financial results along with the 
transcripts of earnings and presentations are posted on 
Company’s website. Other information, such as press 
releases, stock exchange disclosures and presentations 
made to investors and analysts, etc., is also regularly 
updated on the Company’s website. The Company also 
publishes voting results of shareholders’ meetings and 
make it available on its website as well as report the 
same to Stock Exchanges in terms of Regulation 44 of 
SEBI Listing Regulations. For an easy understanding of 
shareholders’ rights, a 'Frequently Asked Questions' 
section is also available on Company’s website.
b) Unmodified Audit Opinion
	
The Auditors have issued an unmodified opinion on the 
financial statements of the Company.
c) Reporting of Internal Auditor 
	
The Company has appointed KPMG Assurance and 
Consulting Services LLP (KPMG) as independent 
Internal Auditor under Section 138 of the Act for FY 
2021-22. The Company has also appointed an employee 
of the Company as Vice President - Internal Audit who 
reports directly to the Audit Committee.
	
Internal audit is governed by the Internal Audit Charter 
approved by the Audit Committee, and outcome of 
Internal Audits are submitted and presented in the Audit 
Committee meetings every quarter.
65
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 85
Annexure A
Declaration
Annexure B 
Corporate Policies
I hereby confirm that the Company has received a confirmation from all the members of the Board and Senior Management, 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2022, that they are in compliance with the Company’s Code of Conduct
For One 97 Communication Limited
Date: May 20, 2022	
Vijay Shekhar Sharma
Place: New Delhi	
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Every Listed Company is required to formulate certain policies pursuant to provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. The Company has formulated and adopted all such 
applicable policies. These policies are reviewed periodically by the Board and updated as and when needed. 
The policies are available on the website of the Company under investor section and the weblinks of key policies are given 
below for ease of reference:
Name of the Policy
Weblink
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy
Click here
Vigil Mechanism/Whistle Blower Mechanism Policy
Click here
Policy for Determination of Materiality of Events or Information
Click here
Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management Team
Click here
Policy on Dealing with Related Party Transactions
Click here
Nomination, Remuneration and Board Diversity Policy
Click here
Policy for Determining Material Subsidiaries
Click here
Dividend Distribution Policy
Click here
Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of 
Unpublished Price Sensitive Information
Click here
Risk Assessment and Management Policy
Click here
Policy for Preservation of Documents
Click here
Web Archival Policy
Click here
Policy for Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace
Click here
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy
Click here
Policy on Familiarization of Independent Director
Click here
66
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 86
Annexure C
Certificate of Non-Disqualification of Directors
 (Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI  
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To, 
The Members 
One 97 Communications Limited 
First Floor, Devika Tower, Nehru Place
New Delhi, lndia-110019
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of ONE 97 
COMMUNICATIONS LIMITED having CIN: L72200DL2000PLC108985 and having registered office at First Floor, Devika 
Tower, Nehru Place, New Delhi, India (hereinafter referred to as 'the Company'), produced before us by the Company for the 
purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with the Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of 
the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 .
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number 
('DIN') status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company and 
the respective Directors, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company, as on March 31, 2022 
as stated below, have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of Companies by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such other Statutory Authority.
S. No DIN
Name of director
Initial date of appointment 
Date of Appointment in Current Term
1.
00466521
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma
December 22, 2000
December 19, 2017
2.
00013580
Mrs. Pallavi Shardul Shroff
February 9, 2018
February 9, 2021
3.
00253613
Mr. Ravi Chandra 
Adusumalli
February 16, 2012
February 16, 2012
4.
00766821
Mr. Ashit Ranjit Lilani
July 5, 2021
July 5, 2021
5.
03581311
Mr. Vivek Kumar Mathur
July 11, 2021
July 11, 2021
6.
07221836
Mr. Neeraj Arora
July 11, 2021
July 11, 2021
7.
07634689
Mr. Mark Schwartz
October 21, 2016
August 31, 2017
8.
07868696
Mr. Douglas Feagin
July 5, 2021
July 5, 2021
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management 
of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an 
assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has 
conducted the affairs of the Company.
For PI & Associates,
Company Secretaries
Nitesh Latwal
Partner
ACS No.: A32109
C P No.: 16276
Date: May 20, 2022 	
PR: 1498/2021
Place: New Delhi 	
UDIN: A032109D000357082
67
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 87
Annexure D
Certificate on Corporate Governance
To, 
The Members 
One 97 Communications Limited 
1.	
We have examined the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance by One 97 Communications Limited 
("Company"), for the year ended on March 31, 2022, as stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of 
sub-regulation 2 of Regulation 46 and Para C, D and E of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended ("SEBI Listing Regulations").
2.	
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the Management of the Company. Our 
examination was limited to the review of procedures and implementation thereof, as adopted by the Company for 
ensuring the compliance of the conditions of the Corporate Governance stipulated in SEBI Listing Regulations. It is 
neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
3.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to our examination of the relevant records and the 
explanations given to us, and the representations made by the management, we certify that the Company has complied 
with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the SEBI Listing Regulations for the year ended on March 
31, 2022.
4.	
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the 
efficiency or effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
 	
For PI & Associates, 
Company Secretaries
Nitesh Latwal
Partner
ACS No.: A32109 
C P No.: 16276
Date: May 20, 2022	
	
PR: 1498/2021
Place: New Delhi 	
UDIN: A032109D000357126
68
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 88
Annexure E
Chief Executive Officer (CEO)/ Chief Financial Officer (CFO) 
certification
We, Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Managing Director and CEO and Madhur Deora, Chief Financial Officer of One 97 Communications 
Limited, to the best of our knowledge and belief hereby certify that: 
a)	
We have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year ended March 31, 2022 and that to the 
best of our knowledge and belief: 
	
(i)	 these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements 
that might be misleading; and
	
(ii)	 these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing 
accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations. 
b)	 There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year which 
are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s code of conduct. 
c)	
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that we have 
evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting and we have 
disclosed to the Auditors and the Audit Committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls, if 
any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies. 
d)	 We have indicated to the auditors and the Audit Committee: 
	
(i)	 significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year; 
	
(ii)	 significant changes in accounting policies during the year and that the same have been disclosed in the notes to 
the financial statements; and 
	
(iii)	 instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the management 
or an employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control system over financial reporting.
	
Vijay Shekhar Sharma	
Madhur Deora
Date: May 20, 2022	
Managing Director and 	
Executive Director, President and  
	
Chief Executive Officer 	
Group Chief Financial Officer
	
Place: New Delhi	
Place: Mumbai
69
Annual Report 
2022
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 89
Business 
Responsibility Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 90
Business Responsibility Report
SECTION A: GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT 
THE COMPANY
1.	
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company: 
L72200DL2000PLC108985
2.	
Name of the Company:  One 97 Communications 
Limited
3.	
Registered Office Address: First Floor, Devika Tower, 
Nehru Place, New Delhi – 110019
4.	
Website: www.paytm.com 
5.	
E-mail id: compliance.officer@paytm.com
6.	
Financial Year reported: 2021-22.
7.	
Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in (Industrial 
activity 
code-wise): 
Other 
information 
service 
activities n.e.c. (Code- 63999)
8.	
List three key products/ services that the Company 
manufactures/ provides (as in balance sheet): Key 
services offered by the company include recharge 
and bill payment on the Paytm app; payment gateway 
services; and, EDC payment devices
9.	
Total number of locations where business activity is 
undertaken by the Company: 
	
i.	
Number of International Locations (provide details 
of major 5): Dubai,  Singapore, Nepal, Malaysia, 
Tanzania
	
ii.	
Number of National Locations (number of offices 
– services are offered on pan India basis): Number 
of offices of our Company are 19. The Company 
provides services in all states of India
10.	 Markets served by the Company- Local/State/
National/International: 
National 
and 
certain 
International markets
SECTION B: FINANCIAL DETAILS OF THE 
COMPANY
1.	
Paid-up Capital (J): ₹ 648,561,414 (as on 31 March 
2022)
2.	
Total Turnover (J): H 38,924 million on a standalone 
basis.
3.	
Total profit after taxes (J): (23,251) million on a 
standalone basis.
4.	
Total Spending on Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) as percentage of profit after tax (%): Not 
Applicable since the average net profit of last three 
financial years is Negative.
5.	
List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above has 
been incurred: N.A.
SECTION C: OTHER DETAILS
1.	
Does the Company have any Subsidiary Company/ 
Companies?
	
The Company has 321 (thirty-two) subsidiaries as on 
31st March 2022.
2.	
Do the Subsidiary Company/ Companies participate 
in the BR Initiatives of the parent Company? If 
yes, then indicate the number of such subsidiary 
Company(s).– No, the subsidiary companies do not 
participate in the BR initiatives of the Company. 
3.	
Do any other entity/ entities (e.g. suppliers, 
distributors etc.) that the Company does business 
with; participate in the BR initiatives of the Company? 
If yes, then indicate the percentage of such entity/ 
entities? [Less than 30%, 30-60%, More than 60%] 
Yes, less than 30% 
SECTION D: BR INFORMATION
1.	
Details of Director/ Directors responsible for BR
	
a)	 Details 
of 
the 
Director 
responsible 
for 
implementation of the BR policy/ policies:
	
	
1.	
DIN Number: 00466521
	
	
2.	
Name: Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma
	
	
3.	
Designation: Managing Director, CEO and 
Chairman
	
1 Paytm First Games Private Limited, Paytm First Games Singapore Pte. Ltd and Paytm Technology  Beijing) Co., Ltd have 
been identified as joint ventures of our Company in its financial statements, in accordance with applicable accounting 
standards. However, pursuant to the definition of “subsidiaries” under the Companies Act, Paytm First Games Private 
Limited, Paytm First Games Singapore Pte. Ltd and Paytm Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd have each been identified as a 
subsidiary of our Company, as our Company controls more than one-half of the total voting power of Paytm First Games 
Private Limited, and Paytm First Games Singapore Pte. Ltd and Paytm Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd are wholly-owned 
subsidiaries of Paytm First Games Private Limited.
71
Annual Report 
2022
Business 
Responsibility 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 91
2.	
Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/ policies 
	
a)	 Details of compliance (Reply in Y/ N) 
S. 
No.
Questions
P
1
P
2
P
3
P
4
P
5
P
6
P
7
P
8
P
9
1.
Do you have a policy/ policies for....?
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
2.
Has the policy being formulated in consultation 
with the relevant stakeholders?2
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
3.
Does the policy conform to any national/ 
international standards? If yes, specify? (50 
words)3
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
4.
Has the policy been approved by the Board?
If yes, has it been signed by MD/ owner/ CEO/ 
appropriate Board Director?
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
5.
Does the Company have a specified committee 
of the Board/ Director/ Official to oversee the 
implementation of the policy?
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
6.
Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed 
online?4
www.paytm.com/investor-relations/policies-and-
guidelines
7.
Has the policy been formally communicated to all 
relevant internal and external stakeholders?
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
8.
Does the Company have in-house structure to 
implement the policy/ policies?
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
9.
Does the Company have a grievance redressal 
mechanism related to the policy/policies to 
address stakeholders' grievances related to the 
policy/ policies?
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
10.
Has the company carried out independent audit/ 
evaluation of the working of this policy by an 
internal or external agency?
N
N
N
N
N
N
N
N
N
 	
	
2While there may not be formal consultation with all stakeholders, the relevant policies have been drafted after 
taking inputs from concerned internal stakeholders.
  	
	
3The content of the policies as articulated by the Company are in compliance with the applicable regulatory 
requirements and standards.
  	
	
4Code of Conduct of the Company is available on intranet. 
	
b)	 If answer to the question at serial number 1 against any principle, is ‘No’, please explain why: (Tick up to 2 
options)– N.A.
S. 
No.
Questions
P
1
P
2
P
3
P
4
P
5
P
6
P
7
P
8
P
9
1
The company has not understood the Principles
2
The company is not at a stage where it finds 
itself in a position to formulate and implement the 
policies on specified principles
	
b)	 Details of the BR head  
No.
Particulars
Details
1.
DIN Number (if applicable)
NA
2.
Name
Ms. Urvashi Sahai
3.
Designation
Senior Vice President and General Counsel
4.
Telephone Number
+91 120 4770770
5.
Email id
BR-GRM@paytm.com 
72
Annual Report 
2022
Business 
Responsibility 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 92
S. 
No.
Questions
P
1
P
2
P
3
P
4
P
5
P
6
P
7
P
8
P
9
3
The company does not have financial or manpower 
resources available for the task
4
It is planned to be done within next 6 months
5
It is planned to be done within the next 1 year
6
Any other reason (please specify)
3.	
 Governance related to BR
	
a)	
Indicate the frequency with which the Board of 
Directors, Committee of the Board or CEO to 
assess the BR performance of the Company. Within 
3 months, 3-6 months, Annually, More than 1 year: 
3-6 months
	
b)	 Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability 
Report? What is the hyperlink for viewing this 
report? How frequently it is published? No
SECTION E: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE
Principle 1- Businesses should conduct and 
govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency 
and Accountability
Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption 
cover only the Company? Yes/ No. Does it extend to 
the Group/ Joint Ventures/ Suppliers/ Contractors/ 
NGOs/ Others? No, the Code of Conduct of the Company 
extends to group companies, joint ventures, suppliers and 
contractors as well.
1.	
How many stakeholder complaints have been 
received in the past financial year and what 
percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the 
management? If so, provide details thereof, in about 
50 words or so. The Company received 18 complaints 
via its whistleblowing platform from 1st April, 2021 till 
31st March, 2022. 17 complaints i.e. 94% (approx.) have 
been closed and 1 complaint i.e. 6% (approx.) of the 
total complaints is open and still under investigation. 
The Company has not received any complaints related 
to anti money laundering and prevention of sexual 
harassment in the past financial year. Post listing, 
the Company has received 40 investor complaints 
until March 31, 2022, out of which, 2 complaints were 
pending as at end of financial year which got resolved 
subsequently in compliance with Listing Regulations 
and in accordance with Investor Grievance Policy of the 
Company.
Principle 2- Businesses should provide goods 
and services that are safe and contribute to 
sustainability throughout their life cycle
1.	
List up to 3 of your products or services whose 
design has incorporated social or environmental 
concerns, risks and/ or opportunities.
	
a)	 Paytm Soundbox: The Company has come up 
with a unique feature in its EDCs devices (a kind 
of Point-of-Sale terminals) wherein it plays a sound 
notification for transaction confirmation. Every time 
a transaction is processed, the EDC device (called 
Sound-box) confirms the transactions through 
sound notification, thus annulling the need for 
paper slips for transaction confirmation.
	
	
The feature is available in 11 languages (English, 
Hindi, Kannada, Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam, Punjabi, 
Marathi, Gujarati, Bangla, Odia), which facilitated 
its usage across the country. In the last financial 
year (April 2021- March 2022), a total of 5045 
Million Sound-box-based transactions have been 
completed through Paytm-enabled sound boxes. 
This has enabled saving paper slips worth 4.43 
million pounds in the last one year (considering 
each paper slip 5.7cm*10 cm, having 70 GSM 
paper).
	
b)	 Paytm QR Code: The Company has pioneered 
the use of QR codes initially through ‘Paytm 
Wallet’ and extended the same QR for UPI across 
India. This has helped in progressing towards the 
Government of India's vision of making India a 
cashless economy. Many customers make their 
daily transactions through Paytm wallet and UPI 
by scanning the QR code, thus obliviating the need 
to go to ATM machines to withdraw and carry 
cash. The QR code stickers provided by Paytm to 
all its merchants are recyclable in its nature. The 
Company is also helping in deepening the ‘financial 
inclusion agenda’ by onboarding street vendors 
under ‘Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor's AtmaNirbhar 
73
Annual Report 
2022
Business 
Responsibility 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 93
Nidhi Scheme’ (SVANidhi) and helping them to 
accept digital payments. In financial year 2021-
22, the company has onboarded more than 35000 
Street vendors under PM SVANidhi scheme.
	
c)	
The Company also engages in paperless merchant 
onboarding with completely digital KYC, thus 
saving in paper-based document exchange.
2.	
For each such product, provide the following details 
in respect of resource use (energy, water, raw 
material etc.) per unit of product (optional):
	
(a)	 Reduction 
during 
sourcing/ 
production/ 
distribution achieved since the previous year 
throughout the value chain? QR Code: The QR 
code sticker and standee provided by the Company 
to all its merchants are recyclable in its nature
	
(b)	 Reduction during usage by consumers (energy, 
water) has been achieved since the previous 
year?
 
 
(i) Soundbox
	
	
	
In the last financial year, a total of 5045 Million 
sound-box-based transactions have been 
completed through Paytm-enabled sound 
boxes. This has enabled saving paper slips 
worth 4.43 million pounds in last one year. Also, 
we scrap non-usable/non-repairable sound-
boxes and POS devices by handing these over 
to the CPCB-authorized eWaste vendor.
 
 
(ii) Digital Inclusion of Street Vendors
	
	
	
Under the PM SVANidhi Scheme, QR code 
have been provided to 35,553 street venders 
in the past financial year. This had enabled 
them to accept the payments digitally.
	
	
Does the Company have procedures in place for 
sustainable sourcing (including transportation)?
	
	
a)	 If yes, what percentage of your inputs was 
sourced sustainably? Also, provide details 
thereof, in about 50 words or so.
	
	
	
Yes, as a responsible corporate, the Company 
endeavours to reduce the environmental 
impact of its operations. The Company uses 
only CNG cabs to provide office pickup and 
drop facility to its employees. The Company 
has mandated that all such vehicles procure 
pollution check certificate as per government 
norms.
	
(c)	 Has the Company taken any steps to procure 
goods and services from local & small producers, 
including communities surrounding their place 
of work? Yes,
	
	
a)	 If yes, what steps have been taken to improve 
their capacity and capability of local and 
small vendors? To support various initiatives 
by NGO's working with the underprivileged 
section of the society, we regularly procure 
various goods from such NGOs. One such 
example is that the Company procures gift 
items for employees from NGO Svatanya (on 
occasion such as Women’s day, Diwali etc.) to 
support the local and small vendors.
	
(d)	 Does the Company have a mechanism to 
recycle products and waste? If yes what is the 
percentage of recycling of products and waste 
(separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%). Also, provide 
details thereof, in about 50 words or so.
	
	
Yes, as an environmentally responsible company, 
we aim to constantly reduce the utilization of paper 
and dynamic measures are being implemented 
across different processes, as detailed below:
	
	
a)	
All waste that is generated on our premises is 
disposed of to the state government authorized 
agencies who have sorting/processing units of 
their own.
	
	
b)	 We have already restricted the usage of single 
use plastic in our offices like plastic spoons, 
disposable plates, stirrers etc. and they are 
replaced with eco-friendly material.
	
	
c)	
We also strictly follow our scrap policy for 
e-waste generated through our business 
activities.
	
	
	
The link for scrap policy is available on the 
intranet of the Company. We dispose our 
e-waste through Central Pollution Control 
Board (CPCB) listed e-waste vendors.
Principle 3- Businesses should promote the 
wellbeing of all employees
1.	
Please indicate the Total number of employees: 
There were 7,278 employees (excluding subsidiary 
Companies) on the rolls of the Company as on March 
31, 2022
74
Annual Report 
2022
Business 
Responsibility 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 94
2.	
Please indicate the Total number of employees hired on temporary/ contractual/ casual basis: 1114 as on March 31, 
2022
3.	
Please indicate the Number of permanent women employees: 1,283 as on March 31, 2022
4.	
Please indicate the Number of permanent employees with disabilities: NA
5.	
Do you have an employee association that is recognized by management: NA
6.	
What percentage of your permanent employees is members of this recognized employee association? NA
7.	
Please indicate the Number of complaints relating to child labour, forced labour, involuntary labour, sexual 
harassment in the last financial year and pending, as on the end of the financial year.
S. 
No.
Category
No. of complaints filed during 
the financial year 2021-22
No. of complaints pending as 
on end of the financial year 
(31 March 2022)
1.
Child labour/ forced labour/ involuntary labour
NA
NA
2.
Sexual harassment
NA
NA
3.
Discriminatory employment
NA
NA
8.	
What percentage of your under mentioned employees 
were given safety & skill up-gradation training in the 
last year?
	
a)	
Permanent Employees: 70%
	
b)	 Permanent Women Employees – 100%
	
c)	
Casual/ Temporary/ Contractual Employees – 90%
	
d)	 Employees with Disabilities- NA
Principle 4- Businesses should respect the 
interests 
of, 
and 
be 
responsive 
towards 
all stakeholders, especially those who are 
disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized.
1.	
Has the Company mapped its internal and external 
stakeholders? Yes/ No - Yes
2.	
Out of the above, has the Company identified 
the 
disadvantaged, 
vulnerable 
& 
marginalized 
stakeholders? Yes
3.	
Are there any special initiatives taken by the Company 
to engage with the disadvantaged, vulnerable and 
marginalized stakeholders. If so, provide details 
thereof, in about 50 words or so. – The Company has 
undertaken initiatives as mandated by law.
Principle 5- Businesses should respect and 
promote human rights
1.	
Does the policy of the Company on human rights 
cover only the Company or extend to the Group/ Joint 
Ventures/ Suppliers/ Contractors/ NGOs/ Others? 
Company’s Code of Conduct extends to group, joint 
ventures, suppliers and contractors.
2.	
How many stakeholder complaints have been 
received in the past financial year and what percent 
was satisfactorily resolved by the management? No 
legal complaints regarding Human Rights have been 
received in the past financial year.
Principle 6- Business should respect, protect, 
and make efforts to restore the environment
1.	
Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the 
Company or extends to the Group/ Joint Ventures/ 
Suppliers/ Contractors/ NGOs/ others. Company’s 
Code of Conduct extends to group, joint ventures, 
suppliers and contractors.
	
Does the Company have strategies/ initiatives to 
address global environmental issues such as climate 
change, global warming, etc.? Y/ N. If yes, please give 
hyperlink for webpage etc. Yes
	
Clean air has been our focus area and we have 
collaborated with UNEP for AQAF (Air Quality Action 
forum) Project. It aims to establish an air pollution 
‘Solutions Centre’ to provide direct support to Indian 
policy and decision makers. Also, we are striving to 
incorporate sustainable ways of operations, including 
helping our users and merchants access the paperless 
PoS devices and recyclable QR code. This has reduced 
the dependence on paper-based activities:
	
The hyperlink to the webpage is Paytm Foundation Web
2.	
Does the Company identify and assess potential 
environmental risks? Y/ N Yes
3.	
Does the Company have any project related to Clean 
Development Mechanism? If so, provide details 
thereof, in about 50 words or so. Also, if Yes, whether 
any environmental compliance report is filed? We 
have collaborated with UNEP to set up Air Quality 
Action Forum which aims to work towards mitigating the 
impact of air pollution in India and offer solutions. It will 
identify the needs, gaps, and solutions to the problem 
of air quality and will ensure project implementation 
in a structured manner with a yearly action plan. Our 
Managing Director, Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma, has been 
named as a patron for Clean Air by UNEP.
75
Annual Report 
2022
Business 
Responsibility 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 95
4.	
Has the Company undertaken any other initiatives 
on - clean technology, energy efficiency, renewable 
energy, etc. Y/ N. If yes, please give hyperlink for web 
page etc. Yes, the Company has undertaken initiatives 
on these issues.
5.	
Are the Emissions/ Waste generated by the Company 
within the permissible limits given by CPCB/ SPCB 
for the financial year being reported? Yes
6.	
Number of show cause/ legal notices received from 
CPCB/ SPCB which are pending (i.e. not resolved to 
satisfaction) as on end of Financial Year. None
Principle 7- Businesses, when engaged in 
influencing public and regulatory policy, should 
do so in a responsible manner
1.	
Is your Company a member of any trade and chamber 
or association? If Yes, Name only those major ones 
that your business deals with: We forge partnerships 
with industry bodies and consortiums at the local, 
national and international levels, including with:
	
a)	
Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry 
of India (ASSOCHAM)
	
b)	 International Chamber of Commerce (ICC)
	
c)	
National Association of Software and Services 
Companies (NASSCOM)
	
d)	 Internet & Mobile Association of Indi (IAMAI)
	
e)	 Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
	
f)	
Payments Council of India (PCI)
	
g)	 Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and 
Industry (FICCI)
2.	
Have 
you 
advocated/ 
lobbied 
through 
above 
associations for the advancement or improvement of 
public good? Yes/ No: If yes specify the broad areas 
(drop box: Governance and Administration, Economic 
Reforms, Inclusive Development Policies, Energy 
security, Water, Food Security, Sustainable Business 
Principles, Others) Yes. The Company has advocated 
for public good through various industry associations 
and in various forums in related to the following areas:
	
a)	
Governnance and administration,
	
b)	 Economic reforms, and
	
c)	
Inclusive development policies.
Principle 8- Businesses should support inclusive 
growth and equitable development
3.	
Does the Company have specified programmes/ 
initiatives/ projects in pursuit of the policy related to 
Principle 8? If yes details thereof.
	
The Company’s vision is to bring half a billion Indians to 
the mainstream economy through payments, commerce, 
banking, investments, and financial services.
4.	
Are the programmes/ projects undertaken through 
in-house team/ own foundation / external NGO/ 
government structures/ any other organization?
	
The clean air project (AQAF-Air Quality Action Forum) is 
being executed in collaboration with UNEP.
	
Have you done any impact assessment of your 
initiative? No
5.	
What is your Company's direct contribution to 
community development projects - Amount in INR 
and the details of the projects undertaken.
	
The details of the community development projects are 
as follows:
	
a)	
For UNEP AQAF (Air Quality Action Forum) project- 
H 33.75 lakhs
	
b)	 COVID Relief: 230 OCs (amounting to H 1 Crore) 
donated to government hospitals.
6.	
Have you taken steps to ensure that this community 
development initiative is successfully adopted by 
the community? Please explain in 50 words, or so.
	
The oxygen concentrators were deployed in the 
government hospitals and utilised by NGOs as part of 
their Covid-19 relief measures in the last financial year.
Principle 9- Businesses should engage with and 
provide value to their customers and consumers 
in a responsible manner
1.	
What percentage of customer complaints/ consumer 
cases are pending as on the end of financial year. Out 
of the complaints received during the year, 0.01% cases 
were pending as on the end of the financial year.
2.	 Does the Company display product information on 
the product label, over and above what is mandated 
as per local laws? Yes/ No/ N.A./ Remarks (additional 
information) 
The 
Company 
displays 
product 
information as mandated by applicable law.
3.	
Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against 
the Company regarding unfair trade practices, 
irresponsible advertising and/ or anti-competitive 
behaviour during the last five years and pending as 
on end of financial year. If so, provide details thereof, 
in about 50 words or so.
	
No.
4.	
Did your Company carry out any consumer survey/ 
consumer satisfaction trends? Yes 
76
Annual Report 
2022
Business 
Responsibility 
Report

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 96
Financial 
Statements

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 97
Independent Auditor’s Report
To  
The Members of One 97 Communications Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements
Opinion 
1.	
We have audited the accompanying Standalone 
Financial Statements of One 97 Communications 
Limited 
(“the 
Company”), 
which 
comprise 
the 
Standalone Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2022, and 
the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss (including 
Other 
Comprehensive 
Income), 
the 
Standalone 
Statement of Changes in Equity and the Standalone 
Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and 
notes to the Standalone Financial Statements, including 
a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid 
Standalone Financial Statements give the information 
required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act") in the 
manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity 
with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, 
of the state of affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2022, 
and total comprehensive income (comprising of loss and 
other comprehensive income), changes in equity and its 
cash flows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 
143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those 
Standards are further described in the “Auditor’s 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements” section of our report. We are independent 
of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India together with the ethical requirements that 
are relevant to our audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements under the provisions of the Act and the 
Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements 
and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit 
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our opinion.
Emphasis of Matter
4.	
We draw your attention to the following matters:
	
a)	
Note 2.1 to the Standalone Financial Statements, 
which describes the management’s assessment 
of the impact of the outbreak of Coronavirus 
(COVID-19) on the business operations of the 
Company. In view of the uncertain economic 
environment, a definitive assessment of the impact 
on the subsequent periods is highly dependent 
upon circumstances as they evolve.
	
b)	 Note 35 to the Standalone Financial Statements 
relating to
	
	
i.	
non-realisation of foreign currency receivable 
balances as at March 31, 2022 aggregating to  
H 349 million outstanding beyond the stipulated 
time period permitted under the RBI Master 
Direction on Export of Goods and Services 
vide FED Master Direction No. 16/2015-16 
dated January 1, 2016 (as amended), issued by 
the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The Company 
has made the necessary application with the 
Authorised Dealer (AD) banker/RBI seeking 
extension of time limit for remittance of certain 
balances and write-off the remaining balances.
	
	
ii.	
non-settlement of foreign currency payables as 
at March 31, 2022 amounting to H 1.33 million, 
due for more than three years, being the time 
permitted under the RBI Master Direction on 
Import of Goods and Services vide FED Master 
Direction No. 17/2016-17 dated January 1, 
2016 (as amended) issued by the RBI. The 
Company has filed an application to the RBI for 
permission to write-back the aforesaid payable 
balances.
	
Our opinion is not modified in respect of the above 
matters.
Key Audit Matters 
5.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance in 
our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements of 
the current period. These matters were addressed in 
the context of our audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements as a whole and in forming our opinion 
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on 
these matters. 
78
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 98
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Assessment of carrying value of investment in 
subsidiaries, and associates carried at cost
(Refer accompanying notes 2.2(j), 2.2(n), 2.2 (u), 5, 6 
and 21 to the Standalone Financial Statements)
The 
Company 
has 
equity 
investments 
in 
various 
subsidiaries and associates. The Company accounts for 
equity investments in subsidiaries and associates at cost 
(subject to impairment assessment).
For investments carried at cost where an indication 
of impairment exists, the carrying value of investment 
is assessed for impairment and where applicable an 
impairment provision is recognized, if required.
The accounting for investments is a key audit matter as 
the determination of recoverable value for impairment 
assessment involves significant management judgement.
In measuring these investments, valuation methods are 
used based on inputs that are not directly observable from 
market information and certain other unobservable inputs. 
The key inputs and judgements involved in the impairment 
of investments include:
i)	 Forecast cash flows including assumptions on growth 
rates
ii)	 Discount rates
iii)	 Terminal growth rate
 Our procedures to assess the carrying value of investment 
(including impairment) in subsidiaries, and associates 
included the following:
•	
We obtained an understanding from the management, 
assessed and tested the design and operating 
effectiveness of the Company’s key controls over the 
impairment assessment of material investments.
•	
We evaluated the Company’s process regarding 
impairment assessment by involving auditor’s valuation 
experts to assist in assessing the appropriateness 
of the impairment model including the independent 
assessment of the underlying assumptions relating to 
cash flow, discount rate, terminal value, etc. for material 
investments.
•	
We checked the mathematical accuracy of the 
impairment model and agreed relevant data back to the 
latest budgets, actual past results and other supporting 
documents.
•	
We assessed the Company’s sensitivity analysis and 
evaluated whether any reasonably foreseeable change 
in assumptions could lead to impairment or material 
change in the carrying value.
•	
We assessed adequacy of relevant disclosures in the 
Standalone Financial Statements.
Based on the above audit procedures performed, the 
Management’s assessment of the carrying value of the 
investments was considered to be reasonable.
Other Information
6.	
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for 
the other information. The other information comprises 
the Board’s Report, Corporate Governance Report, The 
Management Discussion and Analysis Report, Business 
Responsibility Report and Shareholder’s information, but 
does not include the Standalone Financial Statements and 
our auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the Standalone 
Financial Statements does not cover the other information 
and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion 
thereon. In connection with our audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other 
information is materially inconsistent with the Standalone 
Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the 
audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, 
based on the work we have performed, we conclude that 
there is a material misstatement of this other information, 
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to 
report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and Those 
Charged With Governance for the Standalone 
Financial Statements
7.	
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act 
with respect to the preparation of these Standalone 
Financial Statements that give a true and fair view of 
the financial position, financial performance, changes 
in equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance 
with the accounting principles generally accepted in 
India, including the Accounting Standards specified 
under Section 133 of the Act. This responsibility 
also includes maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the Act 
for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for 
preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; 
selection and application of appropriate accounting 
policies; making judgments and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial 
controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring 
the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, relevant to the preparation and presentation 
of the Standalone Financial Statements that give a true 
and fair view and are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error. 
8.	
In preparing the Standalone Financial Statements, 
management is responsible for assessing the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, 
as applicable, matters related to going concern and 
using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
management either intends to liquidate the Company or 
79
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 99
to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to 
do so. Those Board of Directors are also responsible for 
overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements
9.	
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the Standalone Financial Statements as 
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report 
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance 
is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee 
that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will 
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 
they could reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of 
these Standalone Financial Statements. 
10.	 As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional 
scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
	
•	
Identify 
and 
assess 
the 
risks 
of 
material 
misstatement 
of 
the 
Standalone 
Financial 
Statements, whether due to fraud or error, design 
and perform audit procedures responsive to those 
risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting 
from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, 
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the 
override of internal control. 
	
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant 
to the audit in order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under 
Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible 
for expressing our opinion on whether the company 
has adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements in place and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls. 
	
•	
Evaluate 
the 
appropriateness 
of 
accounting 
policies 
used 
and 
the 
reasonableness 
of 
accounting estimates and related disclosures made  
by management.
	
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether 
a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, 
we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s 
report to the related disclosures in the Standalone 
Financial Statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions 
are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the 
date of our auditor’s report. However, future events 
or conditions may cause the Company to cease to 
continue as a going concern.  
	
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the financial statements, including 
the disclosures, and whether the Standalone 
Financial Statements represent the underlying 
transactions and events in a manner that achieves 
fair presentation.
11.	 We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope 
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, 
including any significant deficiencies in internal control 
that we identify during our audit.
12.	 We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and 
to communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to 
bear on our independence, and where applicable,  
related safeguards. 
13.	 From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance, we determine those matters that 
were of most significance in the audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements of the current period and are 
therefore the key audit matters. We describe these 
matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation 
precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, 
in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that 
a matter should not be communicated in our report 
because the adverse consequences of doing so would 
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest 
benefits of such communication.
Report 
on 
Other 
Legal 
and 
Regulatory 
Requirements 
14.	 As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government 
of India in terms of sub-section (11) of Section 143 of 
the Act, we give in the Annexure B, a statement on the 
matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to 
the extent applicable.  
15.	 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that: 
	
(a)	 We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge 
and belief were necessary for the purposes of  
our audit. 
	
(b)	 In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law have been kept by the Company so far as it 
appears from our examination of those books. 
80
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 100
	
(c)	 The Standalone Balance Sheet, the Standalone 
Statement of Profit and Loss (including other 
comprehensive income), the Standalone Statement 
of Changes in Equity and the Standalone Statement 
of Cash Flows dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the books of account. 
	
(d)	 In our opinion, the aforesaid Standalone Financial 
Statements comply with the Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act. 
	
(e)	 On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors as on March 31, 2022 taken 
on record by the Board of Directors, none of the 
directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2022 from 
being appointed as a director in terms of Section 
164(2) of the Act.
	
(f)	 With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial 
statements of the Company and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate 
Report in “Annexure A”.  
	
(g)	 With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 
of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 
(as amended), in our opinion and to the best of 
our information and according to the explanations 
given to us:  
	
	
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of 
pending litigations on its financial position in its 
Standalone Financial Statements – Refer Note 
28 (d) to the Standalone Financial Statements; 
	
	
ii.	
The 
Company 
had 
long-term 
contracts 
including derivative contracts as at March 
31, 2022 for which there were no material 
foreseeable losses.
	
	
iii.	 There were no amounts which were required 
to be transferred to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Company during the 
year ended March 31, 2022.
	
	
iv.	 (a)	 The management has  represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, 
other than as disclosed in the notes 
to the accounts, no funds have been 
advanced or loaned or invested (either 
from borrowed funds or share premium 
or any other sources or kind of funds) by 
the Company to or in any other person(s) 
or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly, lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security or the 
like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries 
(Refer Note 41 (i)(a) to the Standalone 
Financial Statements);
	
	
	
(b)	 The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, as 
disclosed in the notes to the accounts, no 
funds have been received by the Company 
from any person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing 
or otherwise, that the Company shall, 
whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest 
in other persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security or the 
like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries 
(Refer Note 41(i)(b) to the Standalone 
Financial Statements); and
	
	
	
(c)	 Based on such audit procedures that we 
considered reasonable and appropriate 
in the circumstances, nothing has come 
to our notice that has caused us to 
believe that the representations under 
sub-clause (a) and (b) contain any  
material misstatement.
	
	
v.	
The Company has not declared or paid any 
dividend during the year. 
16.	 The Company has paid/ provided for managerial 
remuneration in accordance with the requisite approvals 
mandated by the provisions of Section 197 read with 
Schedule V to the Act. 
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
Amitesh Dutta
Partner
Membership Number: 058507
UDIN: 22058507AJHXDC5928
Place: Gurugram
Date: May 20, 2022
81
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 101
Annexure A to Independent Auditor’s Report
Referred to in paragraph 15(f) of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of One 97 
Communications Limited on the Standalone Financial Statements as of and for the year ended March 31, 2022
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to Financial Statements under clause 
(i) of sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
1.	
We have audited the internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements of One 97 
Communications Limited (“the Company”) as of March 
31, 2022 in conjunction with our audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements of the Company for the year 
ended on that date.
Management’s 
Responsibility 
for 
Internal 
Financial Controls
2.	
The Company’s management is responsible for 
establishing and maintaining internal financial controls 
based on the internal control over financial reporting 
criteria established by the Company considering the 
essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting (“the Guidance Note”) issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
(“ICAI”). These responsibilities include the design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls that were operating effectively 
for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its 
business, including adherence to company’s policies, 
the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and 
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable financial information, as required 
under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
3.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company's internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements based on our audit. We conducted 
our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the 
Standards on Auditing deemed to be prescribed under 
Section 143(10) of the Act to the extent applicable to an 
audit of internal financial controls, both applicable to an 
audit of internal financial controls and both issued by the 
ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require 
that we comply with ethical requirements and plan 
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements was established and 
maintained and if such controls operated effectively in 
all material respects.
4.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain 
audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls system with reference to financial 
statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit 
of internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements included obtaining an understanding of 
internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and 
operating effectiveness of internal control based on 
the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend 
on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment 
of the risks of material misstatement of the financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our audit opinion on the Company’s internal financial 
controls system with reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to financial statements
6.	
A company's internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements is a process designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles. A company's 
internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements includes those policies and procedures 
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, 
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles, and 
that receipts and expenditures of the company are 
being made only in accordance with authorisations of 
management and directors of the company; and (3) 
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or 
timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company's assets that could have a 
material effect on the financial statements.
82
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 102
Inherent 
Limitations 
of 
Internal 
Financial 
Controls with reference to financial statements
7.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements, including 
the possibility of collusion or improper management 
override of controls, material misstatements due to 
error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements to future 
periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements may 
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, 
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate. 
Opinion
8.	
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, 
an adequate internal financial controls system with 
reference to financial statements and such internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements 
were operating effectively as at March 31, 2022, based 
on the internal control over financial reporting criteria 
established by the Company considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance 
Note issued by ICAI. Also refer paragraph 4 (a) of our 
main audit report.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
Amitesh Dutta
Partner
Membership Number: 058507
UDIN: 22058507AJHXDC5928
Place: Gurugram
Date: May 20, 2022
83
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 103
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report
Referred to in paragraph 14 of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of One 97 Communications 
Limited on the Standalone Financial Statements as of and for the year ended March 31, 2022
i.	
(a)	 (A)	 The Company is maintaining proper records 
showing full particulars, including quantitative 
details and situation, of Property, Plant  
and Equipment.
	
	
(B)	 The Company is maintaining proper records 
showing full particulars of Intangible Assets.
	
(b)	 The Property, Plant and Equipment of the Company, 
are physically verified by the Management 
according to a phased programme designed to 
cover all the items over a period of three years 
which, in our opinion, is reasonable having regard 
to the size of the Company and the nature of its 
assets. Pursuant to the programme, a portion of the 
Property, Plant and Equipment has been physically 
verified by the Management during the year and 
no material discrepancies have been noticed on 
such verification. According to the information 
and explanations given to us, the existence of 
point of sale machines and sound boxes lying with 
customers is considered on the basis of the ‘active 
user status’ of the customers which is tracked from 
the Company’s IT systems.	
	
(c)	 The title deeds of all the immovable properties, as 
disclosed in Note 3(b) to the Standalone Financial 
Statements, are held in the name of the Company.   
	
(d)	 The Company has chosen cost model for its 
Property, Plant and Equipment (including Right of 
Use assets) and intangible assets. Consequently, 
the question of our commenting on whether the 
revaluation is based on the valuation by a Registered 
Valuer, or specifying the amount of change, if the 
change is 10% or more in the aggregate of the 
net carrying value of each class of Property, Plant 
and Equipment (including Right of Use assets) or 
intangible assets does not arise.  
	
(e)	 Based on the information and explanations 
furnished to us, no proceedings have been initiated 
on   the Company for holding benami property under 
the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions 
Act, 1988 (as amended in 2016) (formerly the 
Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 
1988)) and Rules made thereunder, and therefore 
the question of our commenting on whether the 
Company has appropriately disclosed the details in 
its Standalone Financial Statements does not arise. 
ii. 	 (a)	 The Company is in the business of rendering 
services, and consequently, does not hold any 
inventory. Therefore, the provisions of Clause 3(ii)
(a) of the Order are not applicable to the Company. 
	
(b)	 During the year, the Company has been sanctioned 
working capital limits in excess of H 5 crores, in 
aggregate, from banks on the basis of security of 
current assets. The Company has filed quarterly returns 
or statements with such banks, where applicable, 
which are in agreement with the unaudited/audited 
books of account, as applicable (Also refer Note 41 (ii) 
to the Standalone Financial Statements).
iii.	
(a)	 The Company has made investments in 4 companies 
by way of subscribing to Optionally Convertible 
Debentures and granted unsecured loans to 5 
companies during the year. The aggregate amount of 
loans granted during the year, and balance outstanding 
at the balance sheet date with respect to such loans 
to subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates and 
to parties other than subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates are as per the table given below:
Guarantees
Security
Loans
(J million)
Advances 
in nature of 
loans
Aggregate amount granted/ provided 
during the year
-	
Subsidiaries
-
-
319
-
-	
Joint Ventures
-
-
1,613
-
-	
Associates
-
-
-
-
-	
Others
-
-
40
-
Balance outstanding as at balance 
sheet date in respect of above cases *
-	
Subsidiaries
-
-
299
-
-	
Joint Ventures
-
-
1,613
-
-	
Associates
-
-
-
-
-	
Others
-
-
40
-
	
	
* Above balances do not include accrued interest
84
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 104
	
(b)	 In respect of the aforesaid investments and loans, the terms and conditions under which such loans were granted 
and investments were made are not prejudicial to the Company’s interest.
	
(c)	 In respect of the loans, the schedule of repayment of principal and payment of interest has been stipulated by the 
Company. Except for the following instances, the parties are repaying the principal amounts, as stipulated, and are 
also regular in payment of interest as applicable.
Name of the entity
Amount 
(including 
accrued 
interest)
(J million)
Due Date
Extent of 
delay
Remarks  
(if any)
Little Internet Private Limited
87
Refer Note 1 
below 
Refer Note 1 
below
 Refer Note 1 
below
Arthimpact Finserve Private Limited 
234
Refer Note 2 
below
Refer Note 2 
below
Refer Note 2 
below
Paytm Financial Services Limited 
471
Refer Note 3 
below
Refer Note 3 
below
Refer Note 3 
below
Urja Money Private Limited 
11
Refer Note 4 
below
Refer Note 4 
below
Refer Note 4 
below
Robust Infocom Private Limited
265
Refer Note 5 
below
Refer Note 5 
below
Refer Note 5 
below
No. of cases
Principal 
Amount 
Overdue
(J million)
Interest 
Overdue
(J million)
Total Overdue
(J million)
Remarks  
(if any)
2
288
65
353
	
	
Note 1:	 The Company had given loan to Little 
Internet Private Limited (LIPL), a subsidiary 
company, in December 2019. As per 
the agreement, this was to be repaid in 
equated monthly installments starting 
from 7th month after disbursement date 
till 24th month from the disbursement date 
i.e. December 30, 2021. The Company has 
issued a support letter to LIPL allowing 
it further time for repayment till the time 
it has surplus funds or March 31, 2023, 
whichever is earlier.
	
	
Note 2:	 The Company had given loan of H 330 
million on March 25, 2021 with repayment 
date on June 30, 2021. The Company 
entered into an addendum no. 1 dated 
August 11, 2021, w.e.f July 1, 2021 to 
extend loan of H 260 million to September 
30, 2021. The Company further entered 
into an addendum no. 2 dated December 
1, 2021, w.e.f October 1, 2021 to extend 
loan of H 237 million to December 31, 2021.
	
	
Note 3:	 The loan was given in two tranches – H 250 
million on February 24, 2021 and H 200 
million on March 25, 2021. As per the terms 
the loan was to be repaid at the earlier of, at 
the end of 12 months from execution date 
or 30 days of day on which lender demand 
the repayment. The loan has been repaid 
subsequent to the year end.
	
	
Note 4:	 The Company had given loan of H 10 million 
in February 2021 which was to be repaid in 
one year from the disbursement date. The 
Company has entered into an addendum 
dated April 13, 2022 effective February 10, 
2022. As per the addendum, term of loan 
has been extended to four years from the 
disbursement date.
	
	
Note 5:	 The Company had given loan in financial 
year 2018-19 which was repayable on 
demand while the interest was payable 
on a quarterly basis. The Company has 
demanded the principal repayment from 
the party in FY 2020-21.
	
(d)	 In respect of the following loans, the total amount 
overdue for more than ninety days as at March 
31, 2022 is H 353 million. In such instances, in our 
opinion, reasonable steps have been taken by the 
Company for the recovery of the principal amounts 
and interest thereon.
85
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 105
Name of the parties
Aggregate amount dues 
renewed or extended or 
settled by fresh loans
(J million)
Percentage of the aggregate 
to the total loans or advances 
in the nature of loans granted 
during the year
Arthimpact Finserve Private Limited
234
12%
Urja Money Private Limited
11
1%
Little Internet Private Limited
87
4%
Name of the parties
All Parties
(J million)
(Refer Note below)
Promoters
Related Parties
Aggregate of loans/advances in nature of loan
-	
Repayable on demand
313
-
313
-	
Agreement does not specify any terms or 
period of repayment
-
-
-
Percentage of loans/advances in nature of loan to 
the total loans
16%
16%
	
(e)	 Following loans which had fallen due during the year were extended. Further, no fresh loans were granted to same 
parties to settle the existing overdue loans/advances in nature of loan.
	
(f)	 Following loans were granted during the year to related parties u/s 2(76) which are repayable on demand or where 
no schedule for repayment of principal and payment of interest has been stipulated by the Company.  
	
Note:	In respect of the aforesaid loans, the schedule for repayment of principal and payment of interest has been 	
	
	
stipulated however the Company has right to demand payment before specified period.  
iv.	 In our opinion, and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has complied 
with the provisions of Section 185 and 186 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 in respect of the loans and 
investments made, and guarantees and security 
provided by it.
v.	
The Company has not accepted any deposits or 
amounts which are deemed to be deposits from the 
public within the meaning of Sections 73, 74, 75 and 
76 of the Act and the Rules framed there under to the 
extent notified.
vi.	 The Central Government of India has not specified 
the maintenance of cost records under sub-section 
(1) of Section 148 of the Act for any of the services of  
the Company.
vii.	 (a)	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us and the records of the Company examined 
by us, in our opinion, undisputed statutory dues 
including professional tax, labour welfare fund have 
not generally been regularly deposited with the 
appropriate authorities though the delays in deposit 
have not been serious. The Company is generally 
regular in depositing undisputed statutory dues in 
respect of provident fund, though there has been 
a slight delay in a few cases and the Company is 
regular in depositing undisputed statutory dues, 
including, employees’ state insurance, income tax, 
sales tax, service tax, duty of customs, duty of 
excise, value added tax, cess, goods and services 
tax and other material statutory dues, as applicable, 
with the appropriate authorities. Also refer note 
28 (d)(ii) to the Standalone Financial Statements 
regarding management's assessment on certain 
matters relating to provident fund. 
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us and the records of the Company examined 
by us, there are no statutory dues of provident 
fund, employees’ state insurance, professional tax, 
labour welfare fund, sales tax, service tax, duty of 
excise, value added tax, cess, goods and services 
tax which have not been deposited on account of 
any dispute. The particulars of other statutory dues 
referred to in sub-clause (a) as at March 31, 2022 
which have not been deposited on account of a 
dispute, are as follows:
86
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 106
Name of the statute
Nature of dues
Amount
(J million)
Period to 
which the 
amount 
relates
Forum where 
the dispute is 
pending
Income Tax Act, 1961
Non-deduction 
of tax deducted 
at source
3.62
AY 2013-14 
Commissioner 
of Income-tax 
(Appeals) 
Income Tax Act, 1961
Non-deduction 
of tax deducted 
at source
12.50
AY 2014-15
Commissioner 
of Income-tax 
(Appeals) 
Income Tax Act, 1961
Non-deduction 
of tax deducted 
at source
3.16
AY 2019-20
Commissioner 
of Income-tax 
(Appeals)
Income Tax Act, 1961
Interest 
allowable on 
TDS refund
17.63
AY 2016-17 
and 2017-18
Commissioner 
of Income-tax 
(Appeals)
The Customs Act, 1962
Custom duty on 
Sound box
32.92
August 5, 2019 
to July 6, 2021
Deputy 
commissioner 
of Customs
The Gujarat Tax on Entry of Specified 
Goods into Local Area Act, 2001
Entry Tax
17.21*
April 2016 to 
December 
2016
Joint 
Commissioner 
of State Tax 
(Appeal)
Income Tax Act, 1961
Reassessment 
proceedings
624.9
AY 2013-14 to 
AY 2017-18
Hon'ble Delhi 
High Court.
	
	
*excluding H 0.6 million paid under protest by the Company .
viii.	 According to the information and explanations given to 
us and the records of the Company examined by us, 
there are no transactions in the books of account that 
has been surrendered or disclosed as income during 
the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax 
Act, 1961, that has not been recorded in the books  
of account.
ix.	 (a)	 According to the records of the Company examined 
by us and the information and explanation given to 
us, the Company has not defaulted in repayment 
of loans or other borrowings or in the payment of 
interest to any lender during the year.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our audit procedures, we 
report that the Company has not been declared 
Wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution 
or government or any government authority.
	
(c)	 According to the records of the Company examined 
by us and the information and explanations given to 
us, the Company has not obtained any term loans.
	
(d)	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us, and the procedures performed by us, 
and on an overall examination of the Standalone 
Financial Statements of the Company, we report 
that no funds raised on short-term basis have been 
used for long-term purposes by the Company.
	
(e)	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on an overall examination of the 
financial statements of the Company, we report 
that the Company has not taken any funds from 
any entity or person on account of or to meet 
the obligations of its subsidiaries, associates or  
joint ventures.
	
(f)	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us and procedures performed by us, 
we report that the Company has not raised 
loans during the year on the pledge of securities 
held 
in 
its 
subsidiaries, 
joint 
ventures 
or  
associate companies
(x)	 (a)	 In our opinion and according to information and 
explanations given by the management and audit 
procedures performed by us, monies raised by the 
Company by way of initial public offer were applied 
for the purpose for which they were raised. The 
amount of unutilized proceeds as at March 31, 
2022 amounted to H 71,636 million. Also, refer Note 
39 of the Standalone Financial Statements of the 
Company.
87
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 107
	
(b)	 The Company has not made any preferential 
allotment or private placement of shares or fully 
or partially or optionally convertible debentures 
during the year. Accordingly, the reporting under 
Clause 3(x)(b) of the Order are not applicable to 
the Company.
(xi)	 (a)	 During the course of our examination of the 
books and records of the Company, carried out in 
accordance with the generally accepted auditing 
practices in India, and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, we have neither 
come across any instance of material fraud by the 
Company or on the Company, noticed or reported 
during the year, nor have we been informed of any 
such case by the Management.
(xi)	 (b)	 During the course of our examination of the 
books and records of the Company, carried out in 
accordance with the generally accepted auditing 
practices in India, and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, a report under Section 
143(12) of the Act, in Form ADT-4, as prescribed 
under rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 was not required to be filed with the 
Central Government. Accordingly, the reporting 
under clause 3(xi)(b) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
(xi)	 (c)	 During the course of our examination of the 
books and records of the Company, carried out in 
accordance with the generally accepted auditing 
practices in India, and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, the Company has 
received whistle-blower complaints during the year 
which have been considered by us for any bearing 
on our audit and reporting. 
xii.	 As the Company is not a Nidhi Company and the 
Nidhi Rules, 2014 are not applicable to it. Accordingly, 
the reporting under Clause 3(xii) of the Order are not 
applicable to the Company.
xiii.	 The Company has entered into transactions with 
related parties in compliance with the provisions of 
Sections 177 and 188 of the Act. The details of such 
related party transactions have been disclosed in the 
Standalone Financial Statements as required under 
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 24, Related Party 
Disclosures specified under Section 133 of the Act.
(xiv) (a)	 In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanation given to us, the Company has an 
internal audit system commensurate with the size 
and nature of its business.
(xiv)(b)	 The reports of the Internal Auditor for the period 
under audit have been considered by us.
xv.	 The Company has not entered into any non-cash 
transactions with its directors or persons connected 
with him. Accordingly, the reporting under Clause 3(xv) 
of the Order are not applicable to the Company.
xvi.	 (a)	 The Company is not required to be registered under 
Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 
1934. Accordingly, the reporting under Clause 3(xvi)
(a) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	 The Company has not conducted non-banking 
financial or housing finance activities during the 
year. Accordingly, the reporting under Clause 3(xvi)
(b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(c)	 The Company is not a Core Investment Company 
(CIC) as defined in the regulations made by the 
Reserve Bank of India. Accordingly, the reporting 
under Clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
	
(d)	 Based on the information and explanations 
provided by the management of the Company, 
the Group does not have any CICs, which are part 
of the Group. We have not, however, separately 
evaluated 
whether 
the 
information 
provided 
by the management is accurate and complete. 
Accordingly, the reporting under Clause 3(xvi)(d) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xvii) The Company has incurred cash losses of H 12,500 
million in the financial year and of H 13,067 million in the 
immediately preceding financial year.
(xviii) There has been no resignation of the statutory 
auditors during the year and accordingly the reporting 
under Clause (xviii) is not applicable.
(xix) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of the financial ratios (Also refer 
Note 41 (iv) to the Standalone Financial Statements), 
ageing and expected dates of realisation of financial 
assets and payment of financial liabilities, other 
88
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 108
information accompanying the financial statements, our 
knowledge of the Board of Directors and management 
plans and based on our examination of the evidence 
supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our 
attention, which causes us to believe that any material 
uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report that 
Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing 
at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due 
within a period of one year from the balance sheet date. 
We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to 
the future viability of the Company. We further state 
that our reporting is based on the facts up to the date 
of the audit report and we neither give any guarantee 
nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due within a 
period of one year from the balance sheet date will get 
discharged by the Company as and when they fall due.
(xx) The provisions relating to Corporate Social Responsibility 
under Section 135 of the Act are not applicable to the 
Company. Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(xx) of 
the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xxi) The reporting under Clause 3(xxi) of the Order is not 
applicable in respect of audit of Standalone Financial 
Statements. Accordingly, no comment in respect of the 
said clause has been included in this report.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
Amitesh Dutta
Partner
Membership Number: 058507
UDIN: 22058507AJHXDC5928
Place: Gurugram
Date: May 20, 2022
89
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 109
Standalone Balance Sheet  
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Notes
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
3(a)
 5,431 
 2,750 
Right-of-use-assets
3(b)
 2,786 
 1,065 
Capital work-in-progress
3(c)
 97 
 202 
Intangible assets
4
 83 
 90 
Intangible assets under development
3(d)
 15 
 25 
Financial assets
	
Investment in subsidiaries
5
 10,695 
 9,439 
	
Investment in associates
6
 1,932 
 1,962 
	
Other investments
 7(b)
 426 
 120 
	
Loans
7(c)
 1,681 
 - 
	
Other financial assets
7(d)
 41,778 
 3,325 
Current tax assets
 3,838 
 2,854 
Other non-current assets 
9
 3,031 
 2,784 
Total Non-Current Assets
 71,793 
 24,616 
Current assets
Financial assets
	
Other investments
7(a)
 - 
 1,472 
	
Trade receivables 
8
 7,059 
 4,915 
	
Cash and cash equivalents
10(a)
 10,664 
 2,948 
	
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
10(b)
 37,690 
 22,778 
	
Loans
7(c)
 514 
 872 
	
Other financial assets
7(d)
 22,339 
 23,229 
Other current assets 
9
 13,507 
 13,966 
Total Current Assets
 91,773 
 70,180 
TOTAL ASSETS
 163,566 
 94,796 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
Share capital
11(a)
 649 
 605 
Other equity
11(b)
 136,476 
 69,240 
Total Equity
 137,125 
 69,845 
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
	
Lease liabilities
3(b)
 1,724 
 261 
Contract Liabilities
14(b)
 3,165 
 4,119 
Provisions
12
 235 
 205 
Total Non-Current Liabilities
 5,124 
 4,585 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
	
Borrowings
13(a)
 - 
 5,444 
	
Lease liabilities
3(b)
 318 
 179 
	
Trade payables
	
	
(a)	 Total Outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises 
13(b)
 193 
 51 
	
	
(b)	 Total Outstanding dues other than (a) above 
13(b)
 6,914 
 6,086 
	
Other financial liabilities
13(c)
 7,308 
 4,161 
Contract Liabilities
14(b) 
 2,001 
 1,539 
Other current liabilities 
14(a) 
 3,865 
 2,539 
Provisions
12
 718 
 367 
Total Current Liabilities
 21,317 
 20,366 
Total Liabilities
 26,441 
 24,951 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
 163,566 
 94,796 
The above Standalone Balance Sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Standalone Balance Sheet referred to in our report of even date.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of
Firm registration number: 012754N/ N500016	
One 97 Communications Limited
Amitesh Dutta	
Vijay Shekhar Sharma	
Madhur Deora 
Partner	
Chairman, Managing Director and CEO	
Chief Financial Officer 
Membership No: 058507	
DIN No. 00466521
Place: Gurugram	
Place: New Delhi	
Place: Mumbai 
Date: May 20, 2022	
Date: May 20, 2022	
Date: May 20, 2022 
	
Amit Khera
	
Company Secretary
	
Place: Noida
	
Date: May 20, 2022
90
Annual Report 
2022
Standalone Balance Sheet | 
Standalone Statement of Profit 
and Loss

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 110
Particulars
Notes
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2021
Income
Revenue from operations
 15 
 38,924 
 26,671 
Other income 
 16 
 2,830 
 3,749 
Total income
 41,754 
 30,420 
Expenses
Payment processing charges
 19,855 
 19,131 
Marketing and promotional expenses
 7,907 
 5,209 
Employee benefits expense
 17 
 19,072 
 8,339 
Software, cloud and data centre expenses
 4,516 
 3,207 
Depreciation and amortization expense
 18 
 2,282 
 1,568 
Finance costs
 19 
 381 
 337 
Other expenses 
 20 
 10,548 
 7,578 
Total expenses
 64,561 
 45,369 
Loss before exceptional items and tax
 (22,807)
 (14,949)
Exceptional items
 21 
 (441)
 (650)
Loss before tax
 (23,248)
 (15,599)
Income Tax expense
Current tax
 27 
 3 
 2 
Total Tax expense
 3 
 2 
Loss for the year
 (23,251)
 (15,601)
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent 
years
      Re-measurement gains/ (losses) on defined benefit plans
 26 
 (18)
 (15)
Total Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) for the year
 (18)
 (15)
Total Comprehensive Income/ (Loss) for the year
 (23,269)
 (15,616)
Earnings per share (J per share of J 1 each)
Basic
 22 
 (37)
 (26)
Diluted
 22 
 (37)
 (26)
The above Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss referred to in our report of even date.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of
Firm registration number: 012754N/ N500016	
One 97 Communications Limited
Amitesh Dutta	
Vijay Shekhar Sharma	
Madhur Deora 
Partner	
Chairman, Managing Director and CEO	
Chief Financial Officer
Membership No: 058507	
DIN No. 00466521
Place: Gurugram	
Place: New Delhi	
Place: Mumbai 
Date: May 20, 2022	
Date: May 20, 2022	
Date: May 20, 2022 
	
Amit Khera
	
Company Secretary
	
Place: Noida
	
Date: May 20, 2022
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss  
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
91
Standalone Balance Sheet | 
Standalone Statement of Profit 
and Loss
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 111
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity 
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
a)	 Equity Share Capital
Equity shares - issued, subscribed and fully paid
No. of Shares
Amount
At April 1, 2020#
 60,187,655 
 604 
Shares issued during the year##
 29,979 
 * 
Shares issued during the year - ESOP
 42,379 
 * 
At March 31, 2021#
 60,260,013 
 605 
Shares issued during the year##
 38,646,058 
 39 
Shares issued during the year - ESOP
 4,627,616 
 5 
Adjustment for Sub-Division of Equity Shares**
 543,217,887 
 - 
Impact on derecognition of trust
 1,809,840 
 - 
At March 31, 2022
 648,561,414 
 649 
Particulars
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Reserves and Surplus
Other 
reserves 
Total 
Other 
Equity
Securities 
Premium
Retained 
earnings
ESOP 
Reserve
FVTOCI 
As at April 1, 2020
 * 
 188,957 
(108,451)
 3,030 
 (26)
 83,510 
Loss for the year
 - 
 - 
 (15,601)
 - 
 - 
 (15,601)
Other Comprehensive income 
 - 
 - 
 (15)
 - 
 - 
 (15)
Total comprehensive income/ (loss)
 - 
 - 
 (15,616)
 - 
 - 
 (15,616)
Adjustment on forfeiture of ESOP
 - 
 - 
 148 
 (148)
 - 
 - 
Amount transferred to security premium on 
exercise of ESOPs
 - 
 192 
 - 
 (192)
 - 
 - 
Share based payment expenses (Refer note 24)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 867 
 - 
 867 
Share based payment for employees of group 
companies (Refer note 24)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 265 
 - 
 265 
Share application money received  
(pending allotment)
 2 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2 
Amount received on issue of shares
 - 
 107 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 107 
Other adjustments (Refer note 11(b))
 - 
 - 
 105 
 - 
 - 
 105 
As at March 31, 2021
 2 
 189,256 
 (123,814)
 3,822 
 (26)
 69,240 
	
# Net of treasury shares, March 31, 2021: 222,391 and April 1, 2020: 247,370 of face value of H 10 each, at nil cost through Paytm Associate Benefit 
Welfare Trust (formerly known as One97 Employee Welfare Trust)
	
## Shares issued during the year includes 41,407 (March 31, 2021 : 24,979) shares of face value of H 10 each out of treasury shares
	
**Pursuant to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on June 30, 2021, each equity share of face 
value of H 10 per share was sub-divided into ten equity shares of face value of H 1 per share, with effect from record date, i.e., June 30,2021.
b)	 Other Equity
92
Standalone 
Statement of 
Changes in Equity
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 112
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity 
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
b)	 Other Equity (Contd..)
Particulars
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Reserves and Surplus
Other 
reserves 
Total 
Other 
Equity
Securities 
Premium
Retained 
earnings
ESOP 
Reserve
FVTOCI 
Loss for the year
 - 
 - 
 (23,251)
 - 
 - 
 (23,251)
Other Comprehensive income 
 - 
 - 
 (18)
 - 
 - 
 (18)
Total comprehensive income/ (loss)
 - 
 - 
 (23,269)
 - 
 -  (23,269)
Exercise of share options
 (2)
 2 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Adjustment on forfeiture of ESOP
 - 
 - 
 17 
 (17)
 - 
 - 
Adjustment on cancellation of ESOP
 - 
 - 
 102 
 (102)
 - 
 - 
Amount transferred to securities premium on 
exercise of ESOPs
 - 
 2,290 
 - 
 (2,290)
 - 
 - 
Share based payment expenses (Refer note 24)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7,498 
 - 
 7,498 
Share based payment for employees of group 
companies (Refer note 24)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 674 
 - 
 674 
Share application money received  
(pending allotment)
 * 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 * 
Amount received on issue of shares
 - 
 83,023 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 83,023 
Amount utilised for share issue expenses
 - 
 (1,401)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,401)
Other adjustments (Refer note 11(b))
 - 
 - 
 711 
 - 
 - 
 711 
As at March 31, 2022
 * 
 273,170  (146,253)
 9,585 
 (26)
136,476 
	
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
The above Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity referred to in our report of even date.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of
Firm registration number: 012754N/ N500016	
One 97 Communications Limited
Amitesh Dutta	
Vijay Shekhar Sharma	
Madhur Deora 
Partner	
Chairman, Managing Director and CEO	
Chief Financial Officer
Membership No: 058507	
DIN No. 00466521
Place: Gurugram	
Place: New Delhi	
Place: Mumbai 
Date: May 20, 2022	
Date: May 20, 2022	
Date: May 20, 2022 
	
Amit Khera
	
Company Secretary
	
Place: Noida
	
Date: May 20, 2022
93
Standalone 
Statement of 
Changes in Equity
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 113
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows  
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2021
Cash flow from operating activities:
Loss before tax
 (23,248)
 (15,599)
	
Depreciation and amortization expense
 18 
 2,282 
 1,568 
	
Interest income
 16 
 (2,388)
 (2,176)
	
Interest Income on unwinding of discount - financial assets 
measured at amortized cost	
 16 
 (182)
 (212)
	
Interest on borrowing at amortized cost
 19 
 293 
 225 
	
Interest and finance charges on lease liabilities
 19 
 75 
 103 
	
Gain on leases termination
 (3)
 (38)
	
Trade receivables / advance written off
 20 
 201 
 60 
	
Provision for advances
 20 
 40 
 4 
	
Loss allowance for financial assets
 20 
 697 
 471 
	
Provision for impairment of investments in associates and 
subsidiaries
 21 
 441 
 650 
	
Liabilities no longer required written back
 16 
 (7)
 - 
	
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets written off
 20 
 10 
 3 
	
Share based payment expenses
 17 
 7,498 
 867 
	
Provision for employee incentive
 15 
 67 
	
Fair value gain on financial instruments measured at FVTPL (net)
 16 
 (223)
 (891)
	
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (net)
 16 
 (7)
 (18)
Operating loss before working capital changes
 (14,506)
 (14,916)
Working capital adjustments:
	
Increase/(decrease) in trade payables
 977 
 403 
	
Increase/(decrease) in provisions
 379 
 (82)
	
Increase /(decrease) in other current liabilities and contract liabilities
 860 
 (344)
	
Increase/(decrease) in other financial liabilities
 8,236 
 2,021 
	
(Increase)/decrease in trade receivables
 (2,805)
 (504)
	
(Increase)/decrease in other financial assets
 (5,707)
 (5,664)
	
(Increase)/decrease in other current and non-current assets
 373 
 (2,922)
Cash used in operations
 (12,193)
 (22,008)
Tax paid, net of refunds
 (987)
 1,986 
Net cash inflow/ (outflow) from operating activities (A)
 (13,180)
 (20,022)
Cash flow from investing activities:
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 (5,043)
 (1,779)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 
 13 
 47 
Investment in fixed and other deposits with banks
 (93,951)
 (20,661)
Maturity of bank deposits
 42,339 
 10,223 
Proceeds from repayment of inter corporate loans
 117 
 5 
Inter corporate loans given
 (1,972)
 (790)
Proceeds from sale of non-current investments
 13 
 1,036 
Investments in subsidiaries and associates
 - 
 (3,450)
Payment for purchase of non-current investments
 (421)
 (46)
Proceeds from sale of current investments
 85,696 
 99,114 
Payment for purchase of current investments
 (84,204)
 (67,422)
Interest received
 2,694 
 903 
Net cash inflow / (outflow) from investing activities (B)
 (54,719)
 17,180 
94
Standalone 
Statement of 
Cash Flows
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 114
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows  
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2021
Cash flow from financing activities:
Proceeds from issue of shares (including security premium)
 83,067 
 107 
Share issue expenses
 (1,401)
 - 
Share application money received during the year (pending 
allotment)
 * 
 2 
Repayment of term loan
 - 
 (729)
Net change in working capital demand loan 
 (435)
 (847)
Interest paid
 (368)
 (328)
Principal elements of lease payments
 (239)
 (280)
Net cash inflow / (outflow) from financing activities (C )
 80,624 
 (2,075)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
 12,725 
 (4,917)
Cash and cash equivalent at the beginning of the year
 (2,061)
 2,856 
Cash and cash equivalent at the end of the year
 10,664 
 (2,061)
Cash and cash equivalents as per above comprises of following 
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Cash on hand  
 * 
 1 
Balance with banks 
-	
On current accounts 
 10,664 
 1,129 
-	
Deposits with original maturity of less than 3 months 
 - 
 1,818 
Total cash and cash equivalents 
 10(a) 
 10,664 
 2,948 
Bank overdraft 
 13(a) 
 - 
 (5,009)
Cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of statement of cash flows
 10,664 
 (2,061)
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
For non-cash additions and deletions in Right-of-use-assets and financing activities, refer note 3(b) and 13(a).
The above Standalone Statement of Cash Flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Standalone Statement of Cash Flows referred to in our report of even date.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of
Firm registration number: 012754N/ N500016	
One 97 Communications Limited
Amitesh Dutta	
Vijay Shekhar Sharma	
Madhur Deora 
Partner	
Chairman, Managing Director and CEO	
Chief Financial Officer
Membership No: 058507	
DIN No. 00466521
Place: Gurugram	
Place: New Delhi	
Place: Mumbai 
Date: May 20, 2022	
Date: May 20, 2022	
Date: May 20, 2022 
	
Amit Khera
	
Company Secretary
	
Place: Noida
	
Date: May 20, 2022
95
Standalone 
Statement of 
Cash Flows
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 115
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
1.	 Corporate information
	
One 97 Communications Limited (“the Company”) is a 
public company domiciled in India and is incorporated 
under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the 
Act”). The registered office of the Company is located 
at 1st Floor, Devika Tower, Nehru Place, New Delhi - 
110019. The principal place of business of the Company 
is in India. The equity shares of the Company are listed 
on the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”) 
and the BSE Limited (“BSE”) in India.
	
The Company is in the business of providing a) 
payment and financial services which primarily includes 
payment facilitator services, facilitation of consumer 
and merchant lending to consumers and merchants, 
wealth management etc. b) commerce and cloud 
services which primarily consists of aggregator for 
digital products, ticketing business, providing voice 
and messaging platforms to the telecom operators and 
enterprise customers and other businesses, etc.
	
These 
Standalone 
Financial 
Statements 
(“Financial 
Statements”) were authorised for issue in accordance with 
a resolution of the Board of Directors on May 20, 2022.
2. Significant accounting policies
2.1	Basis of preparation
	
These Financial Statements of the Company have 
been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (‘Ind AS’) prescribed under Section 133 of 
the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015 and other relevant provisions of 
the Act as amended from time to time.
	
The financial statements have been prepared on a 
historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and 
liabilities measured at fair value (refer accounting policies 
on financial instruments and Share-based payments).
	
Accounting policies have been consistently applied 
except where a newly issued accounting standard is 
initially adopted or a revision to an existing accounting 
standard requires a change in the accounting policy 
hitherto in use.
	
The Company has applied the following amendments 
for the first time for year commencing from April 1, 2021:
	
•	
Interest rate benchmark reform – amendments 
to Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments, Ind AS 107, 
Financial Instruments: Disclosures, Ind AS 104, 
Insurance Contracts and Ind AS 116, Leases
	
•	
Extension of COVID-19 related concessions – 
amendments to Ind AS 116
	
The amendments listed above did not have any impact 
on the amounts recognised in prior periods and are not 
expected to significantly affect the current or future 
periods.
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs ("MCA") through a 
notification dated March 24, 2021, amended Division 
II of Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013. These 
amendments are applicable for the reporting year 
beginning on or after April 1, 2021. Pursuant to these 
amendment, the comparative figures as disclosed 
in these financial statements have been regrouped/
reclassified, wherever necessary, to make them 
comparable to current year figures. The impact of such 
classifications is summarised below:
Balance Sheet (extract)
March 31, 2021
(as previously 
reported)
Increase/
(Decrease)
March 31, 2021
(Restated)
Loans (non-current)
1,227
(1,227)
-
Loans (current)
1,779
(907)
872
Other financial assets (non-current)
2,098
1,227
3,325
Other financial assets (current)
23,509
(280)
23,229
Trade Receivables
3,728
1,187
4,915
	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has vide notification dated March 23, 2022 notified Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Amendment Rules, 2022 which amends certain accounting standards, and are effective form April 1, 2022. 
Below is a summary of such amendments:
96
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 116
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Title
Key requirements
Ind AS 16, Property, Plant and 
Equipment
Proceeds before intended use of property, plant and equipment:
The amendment clarifies that an entity shall deduct from the cost of an item 
of property, plant and equipment any proceeds received from selling items 
produced while the entity is preparing the asset for its intended use (for example, 
the proceeds from selling samples produced when testing a machine to see if it 
is functioning properly).
Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets
Onerous Contracts – Cost of fulfilling a contract:
The amendment explains that the cost of fulfilling a contract comprises: the 
incremental costs of fulfilling that contract and an allocation of other costs that 
relate directly to fulfilling contracts.
Ind AS 103, Business combinations
References to the conceptual framework:
The amendment adds a new exception in Ind AS 103 for liabilities and contingent 
liabilities.
Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments
Fees included in the 10% test for derecognition of financial liabilities:
The amendment clarifies which fees an entity includes when it applies the ‘10%’ test 
in assessing whether to derecognise a financial liability. An entity includes only fees 
paid or received between the entity (the borrower) and the lender, including fees 
paid or received by either the entity or the lender on the other’s behalf.
Ind AS 101, First time adoption
Subsidiary as a first-time adopter:
Simplifies the application of Ind AS 101 by a subsidiary that becomes a first-time 
adopter after its parent in relation to the measurement of cumulative translation 
differences.
Ind AS 41, Agriculture
Taxation in fair value measurements:
The amendment removes the requirement in Ind AS 41 for entities to exclude cash 
flows for taxation when measuring fair value. This aligns the fair value measurement 
in Ind AS 41 with the requirements of Ind AS 113, Fair Value Measurement.
	
These amendments are not expected to have a material 
impact on the Company in the current or future reporting 
periods and on foreseeable future transactions.
	
The Code on Social Security,2020 (‘Code’) relating 
to employee benefits during employment and post 
employment benefits received Presidential assent 
in September 2020. The Code has been published in 
the Gazette of India. However,the date on which the 
Code will come into effect has not been notified.The 
Company will assess the impact of the Code when it 
comes into effect and will record any related impact in 
the period the Code becomes effective.
	
All the amounts included in the financial statements are 
presented in Indian Rupees (‘Rupees’ or ‘Rs.’ or ‘INR’) 
and are rounded to the nearest millions, except per 
share data and unless stated otherwise.
 
Impact of COVID-19
	
COVID-19 continues to spread across globe and India. 
This has impact on all local and global economic 
activities. Government of India has taken series of 
measures to contain spread of virus and limit economic 
impact on corporates and individuals. 
	
The Company has considered the possible effects that 
may result from COVID-19, on the carrying amount 
of the receivables, investments, goodwill etc. While 
making the assessment, the Company has taken 
cognizance of internal and external information up to 
the date of approval of these Financial Statements. 
The Company based on current estimates expects the 
carrying amount of the above assets will be recovered.
	
Management believes that it has taken into account 
all the possible impact of known events arising from 
COVID-19 pandemic in the preparation of the Financial 
Statements. However, the impact assessment of 
COVID-19 is a continuing process given the uncertainties 
associated with its nature and duration. The Company 
will continue to monitor any material changes to the 
future economic conditions.  
2.2	Summary of significant accounting policies
a. 
Current versus non-current classification
	
The Company presents assets and liabilities in 
the balance sheet based on current / non-current 
classification. 
97
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 117
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
	
An asset is classified as current when it is expected 
to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed in 
normal operating cycle, held primarily for the purpose 
of trading, expected to be realised within twelve 
months after the reporting period, or cash or cash 
equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged 
or used to settle a liability for at least twelve months 
after the reporting period. All other assets are classified  
as non-current.
	
A liability is classified as current when it is expected to 
be settled in normal operating cycle, it is held primarily 
for the purpose of trading, it is due to be settled within 
twelve months after the reporting period, or there is 
no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the 
liability for at least twelve months after the reporting 
period. The Company classifies all other liabilities  
as non-current.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities, are classified as non-
current assets and liabilities.
	
The operating cycle is the time between the acquisition 
of assets for processing and their realisation in cash 
and cash equivalents. The Company has identified 
twelve months as its operating cycle.
b. 
Foreign currencies
	
Functional and presentation currency
	
Items included in the financial statements of the 
Company are measured using the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which it operates 
i.e. the “functional currency”. The Company’s financial 
statements are presented in INR, which is also the 
Company’s functional currency. 
	
Transactions and balances
	
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded 
by the Company’s functional currency at exchange 
rates prevailing at the date the transaction first qualifies 
for recognition.
	
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are translated at the functional currency 
spot rates of exchange at the reporting date. Exchange 
differences arising on settlement or translation of 
monetary items are recognised in profit or loss.
	
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of 
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using 
the exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions.
	
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign 
currency are translated using the exchange rates at the 
date when the fair value is determined. The gain or loss 
arising on translation of non-monetary items measured 
at fair value is treated in line with the recognition of 
the gain or loss on the change in fair value of the item 
(i.e., translation differences on items whose fair value 
gain or loss is recognised in other comprehensive 
income (“OCI”) or statement of profit and loss, are 
also recognised in OCI or statement of profit and  
loss, respectively).
c. 
Fair value measurement
	
The Company measures certain financial instruments 
(e.g. investments) at fair value at each balance  
sheet date. 
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. 
	
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption 
that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the 
liabilities takes place either in the principal market for 
the asset or liability or in absence of principal market, in 
the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
	
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes 
into account a market participant’s ability to generate 
economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and 
best use or by selling it to another market participant 
that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
	
The Company uses valuation techniques that are 
appropriate in the circumstances and for which 
sufficient data are available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and 
minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured 
or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised 
within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, 
based on the lowest level input that is significant to the 
fair value measurement as a whole:
	
Level 1- Quoted (Unadjusted) marked prices in the 
active markets for identical assets or liabilities
	
Level 2- Valuation techniques for which the lowest level 
input that is significant to the fair value measurement is 
directly or indirectly observable
	
Level 3- Valuation techniques for which the lowest level 
input that is significant to the fair value measurement is 
unobservable.
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the 
financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company 
determines whether transfers have occurred between 
98
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 118
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation 
(based on the lowest level input that is significant to the 
fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each 
reporting period.
	
At each reporting date, the management analyses the 
movements in the values of assets and liabilities which 
are required to be re-measured or re-assessed as per 
the Company’s accounting policies. For this analysis, 
the management or its expert verifies the major 
inputs applied in the latest valuation by agreeing the 
information in the valuation computation to contracts 
and other relevant documents.
	
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Company 
has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the 
basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the 
asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy 
as explained above.
d. 
Revenue recognition
	
Revenue is measured based on the consideration 
specified in a contract with a customer net of variable 
consideration e.g. discounts, volume rebates, any 
payments made to a customer (unless the payment 
is for a distinct good or service received from the 
customer) and excludes amounts collected on behalf of 
third parties. The Company recognises revenue when it 
transfers control over a product or service to a customer. 
Revenue is only recognised to the extent that it is highly 
probable that a significant reversal will not occur.
	
The Company provides incentives to its users in various 
forms including cashbacks. Incentives which are 
consideration payable to the customer that are not in 
exchange for a distinct good or service are generally 
recognized as a reduction of revenue.
	
Where the Company acts as an agent for selling goods 
or services, only the commission income is included 
within revenue. The specific revenue recognition 
criteria described below must also be met before 
revenue is recognized. Typically, the Company has a 
right to payment before or at the point that services 
are delivered. Cash received before the services are 
delivered is recognised as a contract liability. The 
amount of consideration does not contain a significant 
financing component as payment terms are less than 
one year. 
 
Sale of services 
	
Revenue from services is recognized when the control 
in services is transferred as per the terms of the 
agreement with customer i.e. as and when services 
are rendered. Revenues are disclosed net of the Goods 
and Services Tax charged on such services. In terms 
of the contract, excess of revenue over the billed at 
the year-end is carried in the balance sheet as trade 
receivables where the amount is recoverable from the 
customer without any future performance obligation 
and the Company has unconditional right over such 
consideration (i.e. if only the passage of time is required 
before payment of such consideration is due). Cash 
received before the services are delivered is recognised 
as a contract liability.
 
Commission
	
The Company facilitates recharge of talk time, bill 
payments and availability of bus tickets and earns 
commission for the respective services. Commission 
income is recognized when the control in services is 
transferred to the customer when the services have 
been provided by the Company.
 
Service fees from merchants
	
The Company earns service fee from merchants and 
recognizes such revenue when the control in services 
have been transferred by the Company i.e. as and when 
services have been provided by the Company. Such 
service fee is generally determined as a percentage of 
transaction value executed by the merchants. Amount 
received by the Company pending settlement are 
disclosed as payable to the merchants under other 
financial liabilities.
 
Government Grants
	
The Company recognises government grants only 
when there is reasonable assurance that the conditions 
attached to them will be complied with, and the grants 
will be received. Government grants related to revenue 
are recognized on a systematic basis in the Standalone 
Statement of Profit and Loss as other operating 
revenue over the periods necessary to match them 
with the related costs, if any, which they are intended 
to compensate.
 
Interest income
	
For all debt instruments measured either at amortised 
cost or at fair value through other comprehensive 
income, interest income is recorded using the effective 
interest rate (EIR). EIR is the rate that exactly discounts 
the estimated future cash payments or receipts over 
the expected life of the financial instrument or a shorter 
period, where appropriate, to the gross carrying amount 
of the financial asset or to the amortised cost of a 
financial liability. When calculating the effective interest 
rate, the Company estimates the expected cash flows 
by considering all the contractual terms of the financial 
99
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 119
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
instrument but does not consider the expected credit 
losses. Interest income is included in other income in 
the statement of profit and loss.
e. 
Taxes
 
Current income tax
	
Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured 
at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid 
to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws 
used to compute the amount are those that are enacted 
or substantively enacted, at the reporting date in the 
countries where the Company operates and generates 
taxable income.
	
Current income tax relating to items recognised 
outside statement of profit and loss is recognised 
either in other comprehensive income or in equity. 
Current tax items are recognised in correlation to the 
underlying transaction either in OCI or directly in equity. 
Management periodically evaluates positions taken 
in the tax returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation 
and considers whether it is probable that a taxation 
authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment. The 
Company measures its tax balances either based on the 
most likely amount or the expected value, depending 
on which method provides a better prediction of the 
resolution of the uncertainty. 
 
Deferred tax
	
Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on 
temporary differences between the tax bases of assets 
and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial 
reporting purposes at the reporting date.
	
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences, except:
	
When the deferred tax liability arises from the initial 
recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a 
transaction that is not a business combination and, 
at the time of the transaction, affects neither the 
accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences, the carry forward of unused 
tax credits and any unused tax losses. Deferred tax 
assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that taxable profit will be available against which 
the deductible temporary differences, and the carry 
forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses 
can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax 
assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced 
to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient 
taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of 
the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised 
deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each reporting 
date and are recognised to the extent that it has 
become probable that future taxable profits will allow 
the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the 
tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when 
the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based 
on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted at the reporting date.
	
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside 
statement of profit and loss is recognised either in 
other comprehensive income or in equity. Deferred tax 
items are recognised in correlation to the underlying 
transaction either in OCI or directly in equity.
	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset 
if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax 
assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred 
taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same 
taxation authority.
 
Minimum alternate tax
	
Credit of MAT is recognised as deferred tax asset only 
when it is probable that taxable profit will be available 
against which the credit can be utilised. In the year in 
which the MAT credit becomes eligible to be recognised 
as an asset, the said asset is created by way of a 
credit to the statement of profit and loss account. The 
Company reviews the same at each balance sheet date 
and writes down the carrying amount of MAT credit 
entitlement to the extent it is no longer probable that 
the Company will pay normal income tax during the 
specified period.
 
Taxes paid on acquisition of assets or on incurring 
expenses
	
Assets are recognised net of the amount of GST paid, 
except when the tax incurred on a purchase of assets 
is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which 
case, the tax paid is recognised as part of the cost of 
acquisition of the asset
	
Expenses are recognised net of the amount of GST 
paid, except when the tax incurred on a purchase of 
services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, 
in which case, the tax paid is expensed off in statement 
of profit and loss
	
The net amount of tax recoverable from, or payable 
to, the taxation authority is included as part of other 
100
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 120
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
current/ non- current assets or other current liabilities 
in the balance sheet.
f. 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued 
operations
	
The Company classifies non-current assets and 
disposal groups as held for sale if their carrying amounts 
will be recovered principally through a sale rather than 
through continuing use. Actions required to complete 
the sale should indicate that it is unlikely that significant 
changes to the sale will be made or that the decision to 
sell will be withdrawn. Management must be committed 
to the sale expected within one year from the date  
of classification.
	
For 
these 
purposes, 
sale 
transactions 
include 
exchanges of non-current assets for other non-current 
assets when the exchange has commercial substance. 
The criteria for held for sale classification is regarded 
met only when the assets or disposal group is available 
for immediate sale in its present condition, subject 
only to terms that are usual and customary for sales 
of such assets (or disposal groups), its sale is highly 
probable; and it will genuinely be sold, not abandoned. 
The Company treats sale of the asset or disposal group 
to be highly probable when:
	
•	
The appropriate level of management is committed 
to a plan to sell the asset (or disposal group),
	
•	
An active programme to locate a buyer and 
complete the plan has been initiated (if applicable),
	
•	
The asset (or disposal group) is being actively 
marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in 
relation to its current fair value,
	
•	
The sale is expected to qualify for recognition as 
a completed sale within one year from the date of 
classification , and
	
•	
Actions required to complete the plan indicate that 
it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will 
be made or that the plan will be withdrawn.
	
Non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups 
are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and 
the fair value less costs to sell. Assets and liabilities 
classified as held for sale are presented separately in 
the Balance Sheet. 
	
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 
once classified as held for sale are not depreciated  
or amortised.
	
A disposal group qualifies as discontinued operation 
if it is a component of an entity that either has been 
disposed of, or is classified as held for sale, and:
	
•	
Represents a separate major line of business or 
geographical area of operations or
	
•	
Is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of 
a separate major line of business or geographical 
area of operations.
	
Discontinued operations are excluded from the results 
of continuing operations and are presented as a single 
amount as profit or loss after tax from discontinued 
operations in the statement of profit and loss.
g. 
Property, plant and equipment
	
Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost 
less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated 
impairment, if any. Property, plant and equipment is 
depreciated on a written down value basis to its residual 
value over its estimated useful life. 
	
Costs directly attributable to acquisition are capitalized 
until the property, plant and equipment are ready for 
use, as intended by the management.  
	
Subsequent costs are capitalised on the carrying amount 
or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only 
when future economic benefits associated with the 
item are probable to flow to the Company and cost of 
the item can be measured reliably. When significant 
parts of property, plant and equipment are required 
to be replaced at intervals, the Company depreciates 
them separately based on their specific useful lives. 
The carrying amount of any component accounted for 
as a separate asset is derecognised when replaced. All 
repair and maintenance are charged to statement of 
profit and loss during the reporting period in which they 
are incurred.
	
Advances paid towards the acquisition of property, 
plant and equipment outstanding at each balance 
sheet date is classified as capital advances under the 
non-current assets and the cost of assets not ready to 
use before such date are disclosed under ‘Capital work  
in progress’.
	
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of 
an item of property, plant and equipment is determined 
as the difference between the sales proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss on the date of disposal  
or retirement.
101
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 121
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
	
Depreciation is provided using the written down value 
method and charged to statement of profit and loss, 
unless such expenditure forms part of carrying value 
of another asset, as per the rates prescribed under 
schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013, except for 
technical evaluation done by the management's expert 
for plant and machinery, given below:
Assets
Rate of 
Depreciation
(per annum)
Servers and networking equipment 
(Computers)
39.30%
Laptops and desktops (Computers)
63.16%
Office equipment
45.07%
Furniture and fittings
25.89%
Plant & Machinery
45.07% 
63.16%
Vehicles
31.23%
	
Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the 
shorter of their useful life or the lease term, unless the 
entity expects to use the assets beyond the lease term.
	
The residual values, useful lives and methods of 
depreciation of property, plant and equipment are 
reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted 
prospectively, if appropriate.
h. 
Intangible assets
	
Separately acquired intangible assets, such as software 
are measured initially at cost. Following initial recognition, 
intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated 
amortization and accumulated impairment losses, if 
any. Internally generated intangible assets, excluding 
capitalized development costs, are not capitalized and 
expenditure is reflected in the statement of profit and 
loss in the year in which the expenditure is incurred. 
Intangible assets with finite useful lives are carried 
at cost and are amortised on a written down value 
basis over their estimated useful lives and charged to 
statement of profit and loss.
	
Software and licenses acquired are amortized at the 
rate of 40% per annum on written down value method.
	
The amortization period and the amortization method 
are reviewed at least at each financial year end. Changes 
in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of 
consumption of future economic benefits embodied 
in the asset are considered to modify the amortisation 
period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as 
changes in accounting estimates. The amortisation 
expense on intangible assets is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss unless such expenditure 
forms part of carrying value of another asset.
	
Gains or losses arising from de-recognition of an 
intangible asset are measured as the difference between 
the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of 
the asset and are recognized in the statement of profit 
and loss when the asset is derecognized.
 
Research and development costs
	
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development 
expenditure incurred on an individual project is 
recognized as an intangible asset when the Company 
can demonstrate all the following:
	
•	
The technical feasibility of completing the intangible 
asset so that it will be available for use or sale
	
•	
Its intention to complete the asset
	
•	
Its ability to use or sell the asset
	
•	
How the asset will generate future economic 
benefits
	
•	
The availability of adequate resources to complete 
the development and to use or sell the asset
	
•	
The ability to measure reliably the expenditure 
attributable 
to 
the 
intangible 
asset 
during 
development.
	
Following the initial recognition of the development 
expenditure as an asset, the cost model is applied 
requiring the asset to be carried at cost less any 
accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment 
losses. Amortization of the asset begins when 
development is complete and the asset is available 
for use. It is amortized on a straight line basis over 
the period of expected future benefit from the related 
project, i.e., the estimated useful life of one to five years. 
Amortization is recognized in the statement of profit and 
loss unless such expenditure forms part of carrying value 
of another asset. During the period of development, the 
asset is tested for impairment annually.
i. 
Borrowing costs
	
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of an asset that necessarily 
takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its 
intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost 
of the asset. All other borrowing costs are expensed in 
the period in the statement of profit and loss in which 
they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and 
other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the 
borrowing of funds.
102
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 122
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
j. 
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
For all non-financial assets, the Company assesses 
whether there are indicators of impairment. If such 
an indicator exists, the recoverable amount of the 
asset is estimated in order to determine the extent 
of the impairment loss, if any. Where the asset does 
not generate cash flows that are independent from 
other assets, the Company estimates the recoverable 
amount of the cash-generating unit (CGU) to which the 
asset belongs.
	
The recoverable amount for an asset or CGU is the 
higher of its value in use and fair value less costs of 
disposal. If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU 
is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the 
asset or CGU is considered impaired and the carrying 
amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable 
amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately 
in the statement of profit and loss. 
	
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows of the asset or CGU are discounted to their 
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects 
current market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the asset. In determining fair 
value less costs of disposal, recent market transactions 
are taken into account. 
	
If no such transactions can be identified, an appropriate 
valuation model is used. These calculations are 
corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share 
prices for publicly traded companies or other available 
fair value indicators.
	
The Company bases its impairment calculation on 
detailed budgets and forecast calculations. These 
budgets and forecast calculations generally cover a 
period of five years. For longer periods, a long-term 
growth rate is calculated and applied to project future 
cash flows after the fifth year. To estimate cash flow 
projections beyond periods covered by the most 
recent budgets/forecasts, the Company extrapolates 
cash flow projections in the budget using a steady or 
declining growth rate for subsequent years, unless an 
increasing rate can be justified. In any case, this growth 
rate does not exceed the long-term average growth 
rate for the products, industries, or country or countries 
in which the entity operates, or for the market in which 
the asset is used.
	
An assessment is made at each reporting date to 
determine whether there is an indication that previously 
recognised impairment losses no longer exist or have 
decreased. If such indication exists, the Company 
estimates the asset’s or CGU’s recoverable amount. A 
previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only 
if there has been a change in the assumptions used 
to determine the asset’s or CGU’s recoverable amount 
since the last impairment loss was recognised. The 
reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of the 
asset does not exceed its recoverable amount, nor 
exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment 
loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Such 
reversal is recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
k. 
Provisions and contingencies
 
Provisions
	
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a 
present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of 
a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources 
embodying economic benefits will be required to settle 
the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of 
the amount of the obligation. 
	
When the Company expects some or all of a provision 
to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as 
a separate asset, but only when the reimbursement is 
virtually certain. The expense relating to a provision 
is presented in the statement of profit and loss net of  
any reimbursement.
	
If the effect of the time value of money is material, 
provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate 
that reflects, when appropriate, the risks specific to the 
liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the 
provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a 
finance cost.
 
Contingencies
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises 
from past events whose existence will be confirmed 
by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more 
uncertain future events beyond the control of the 
Company or a present obligation that is not recognized 
because it is not probable that an outflow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation. A contingent 
liability also arises in extremely rare cases where there 
is a liability that cannot be recognized because it cannot 
be measured reliably. The Company does not recognize 
a contingent liability but discloses its existence in the 
financial statements.
l. 
Retirement and other employee benefits
	
For defined benefit plans (gratuity), the liability or asset 
recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of 
the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting 
period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined 
benefit obligation is calculated by an independent 
actuary using the projected unit credit method. 
103
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 123
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
	
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is 
determined by discounting the estimated future cash 
outflows by reference to market yields at the end of the 
reporting period on government bonds that have terms 
approximating to the terms of the related obligation.
	
The net interest cost is calculated by applying the 
discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit 
obligation and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is 
included in employee benefit expense in the statement 
of profit and loss.
	
Re-measurement gains and losses arising from 
experience adjustments and changes in actuarial 
assumptions are recognised in the period in which 
they occur, directly in other comprehensive income. 
They are included in retained earnings in the statement 
of changes in equity and in the balance sheet. Re-
measurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in 
the subsequent periods.
	
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation 
resulting 
from 
plan 
amendments 
or 
curtailments are recognised immediately in profit or 
loss as past service cost.
	
The Company’s contributions to defined contribution 
plans (provident fund) are recognized in profit or 
loss when the employee renders related service. The 
Company has no further obligations under these plans 
beyond its periodic contributions.
	
The Company provides for liability at year end on 
account of un-availed earned leave as per actuarial 
valuation using projected unit credit method.
	
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-
monetary benefits that are expected to be settled 
wholly within 12 months after the end of the period in 
which the employees render the related service are 
recognised in respect of employees’ services up to 
the end of the reporting period and are measured at 
the amounts expected to be paid when the liabilities 
are settled. The liabilities are presented as employee 
benefit payable under other financial liabilities in the 
balance sheet.
m. Share-based payments
 
i) 
Equity-settled transactions
	
	
Employees (including senior executives) of the 
Company receive remuneration in the form of 
share-based payments, whereby employees render 
services as consideration for equity instruments 
(equity-settled transactions).
	
	
The 
cost 
of 
equity-settled 
transactions 
is 
determined by the fair value at the date when the 
grant is made using an appropriate valuation model.
	
	
That 
cost 
is 
recognised, 
together 
with 
a 
corresponding increase in Employee Stock Option 
Plan (ESOP) reserves in equity, over the period in 
which the performance and/or service conditions 
are fulfilled in employee benefits expense. The 
cumulative 
expense 
recognised 
for 
equity-
settled transactions at each reporting date until 
the vesting date reflects the extent to which the 
vesting period has expired and the Company’s 
best estimate of the number of equity instruments 
that will ultimately vest. The statement of profit 
and loss expense or credit for a period represents 
the movement in cumulative expense recognised 
as at the beginning and end of that period and is 
recognised in employee benefits expense.
	
	
Performance 
conditions 
which 
are 
market 
conditions are taken into account when determining 
the grant date fair value of the awards. Service and 
non-market performance conditions are not taken 
into account when determining the grant date fair 
value of awards, but the likelihood of the conditions 
being met is assessed as part of the Company’s 
best estimate of the number of equity instruments 
that will ultimately vest.
	
	
No expense is recognised for awards that do not 
ultimately vest because non-market performance 
and/or service conditions have not been met.
	
	
When the terms of an equity-settled award are 
modified, the minimum expense recognised is the 
expense had the terms not been modified, if the 
original terms of the award are met. An additional 
expense is recognised for any modification that 
increases the total fair value of the share-based 
payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial 
to the employee as measured at the date of 
modification. Where an award is cancelled by 
the entity or by the counterparty, any remaining 
element of the fair value of the award is expensed 
immediately through profit or loss.
	
	
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is 
reflected as additional share dilution in the 
computation of diluted earnings per share.
 
ii) 
Cash-settled transactions
	
	
For awards classified as cash settled share based 
transactions, the goods or services acquired are 
measured and the liability incurred, at the fair value 
104
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 124
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
of liability. Until the liability is settled, the fair value 
of the liability is re-measured at the end of each 
reporting period and at the date of settlement, with 
any changes in fair value recognised in statement 
of profit and loss for the period.
	
	
The cost of cash-settled transactions is determined 
by the fair value of equity instruments at each 
reporting date using an appropriate valuation model.
	
	
That 
cost 
is 
recognised, 
together 
with 
a 
corresponding increase in liability, over the 
period in which the performance and/or service 
conditions are fulfilled in employee benefits 
expense. The cumulative expense recognised for 
cash-settled transactions at each reporting date 
until the vesting date reflects the extent to which 
the vesting period has expired and the Company’s 
best estimate of the number of equity instruments 
that will ultimately vest. The statement of profit 
and loss expense or credit for a period represents 
the movement in cumulative expense recognised 
as at the beginning and end of that period and is 
recognised in employee benefits expense.
	
	
No expense is recognised for awards that do not 
ultimately vest because non-market performance 
and/or service conditions have not been met.
	
	
The Company has set up Paytm Associate Benefit 
Welfare Trust (formerly known as One97 Employee 
Welfare Trust) for administering certain types of 
share-based payment arrangements including 
awards given to employees of the outside group 
companies as well for awards of options of other 
companies given to its employees. The Company 
uses the Trust as a vehicle for distributing shares 
under the ESOP schemes. The Trust holds shares 
of the Company, for giving shares to employees. 
The Company treats the Trust as its extension and 
shares of the Company held by Trust are treated as 
treasury shares. Other assets held by the Trust are 
consolidated on a line-by-line basis with Company’s 
financial statements. Shares of other companies 
held by the Trust for distribution to its employees 
are separately disclosed under investments.
	
	
The Company has lost control over the Trust and 
accordingly, it is now not consolidated on a line-by-
line basis with Company’s financial statements. 
n. 
Financial instruments
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to 
a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or 
equity instrument of another entity.
 
Financial assets
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value 
plus, in the case of financial assets not recorded at fair 
value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are 
attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset.
	
Subsequent measurement
	
For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial 
assets are classified in four categories:
	
•	
Debt instruments at amortized cost
	
•	
Debt instruments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (FVTOCI)
	
•	
Debt 
instruments, 
derivatives 
and 
equity 
instruments at fair value through profit or loss 
(FVTPL)
	
•	
Equity instruments measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income (FVTOCI)
	
Debt instruments at amortised cost
	
A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortised cost if 
both the following conditions are met:
	
a)	
The asset is held within a business model whose 
objective is to hold assets for collecting contractual 
cash flows, and
	
b)	 Contractual terms of the asset give rise on specified 
dates to cash flows that are solely payments 
of principal and interest (SPPI) on the principal  
amount outstanding.
	
After initial measurement, such financial assets are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost 
is calculated by taking into account any discount or 
premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an 
integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortization is included 
in finance income in the profit or loss. The losses 
arising from impairment are recognised in the profit or 
loss. This category generally applies to trade and other 
receivables and is most relevant to the Company.
	
Debt instrument at FVTOCI
	
A ‘debt instrument’ is classified as at the FVTOCI if both 
of the following criteria are met:
	
a)	
The objective of the business model is achieved 
both by collecting contractual cash flows and 
selling the financial assets,   and
105
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 125
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
	
b)	 The asset’s contractual cash flows represent SPPI.
	
Debt instruments included within the FVTOCI category 
are measured initially as well as at each reporting date 
at fair value. Fair value movements are recognized in 
the other comprehensive income (OCI). However, the 
Company recognizes interest income, impairment 
losses and reversals and foreign exchange gain or loss 
in the statement of profit and loss. On derecognition of 
the asset, cumulative gain or loss previously recognised 
in OCI is reclassified from the equity to the statement 
of profit and loss. Interest earned whilst holding FVTOCI 
debt instrument is reported as interest income using 
the EIR method.
	
Debt instrument at FVTPL
	
FVTPL is a residual category for debt instruments. Any 
debt instrument, which does not meet the criteria for 
categorization as at amortized cost or as FVTOCI, is 
classified as at FVTPL.
	
In addition, the Company may elect to designate a debt 
instrument, which otherwise meets amortized cost or 
FVTOCI criteria, as at FVTPL. However, such election 
is allowed only if doing so reduces or eliminates a 
measurement or recognition inconsistency (referred to 
as ‘accounting mismatch’). 
	
Debt instruments included within the FVTPL category 
are measured at fair value with all changes recognized 
in the statement of profit and loss.
	
Equity investments
	
All equity investments in scope of Ind AS 109 are 
measured at fair value. The Company may make an 
irrevocable election to present in other comprehensive 
income subsequent changes in the fair value. The 
Company makes such election on an instrument-by-
instrument basis. The classification is made on initial 
recognition and is irrevocable.
	
If the Company decides to classify an equity instrument 
as at FVTOCI, then all fair value changes on the 
instrument, excluding dividends, are recognized in the 
OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts from OCI to 
statement of profit or loss, even on sale of investment. 
However, the Company may transfer the cumulative 
gain or loss within equity.
	
Equity instruments included within the FVTPL category 
are measured at fair value with all changes recognized 
in the statement of profit and loss.
	
The equity securities which are not held for trading, 
and for which the Company has made an irrevocable 
election at initial recognition to recognize changes in 
fair value through OCI rather than profit or loss as these 
are strategic investments and the Company considered 
this to be more relevant.
	
Equity investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint 
ventures are measured at cost. The investments are 
reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether 
there is any indication of impairment considering the 
provisions of Ind AS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’. If any 
such indication exists, policy for impairment of non-
financial assets is followed.
	
Derecognition
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a 
financial asset or part of a group of similar financial 
assets) is primarily derecognised (i.e. removed from the 
Company’s balance sheet) when:
	
•	
The rights to receive cash flows from the asset 
have expired, or
	
•	
The Company has transferred its rights to receive 
cash flows from the asset or has assumed an 
obligation to pay the received cash flows in full 
without material delay to a third party under a 
‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either (a) the 
Company has transferred substantially all the risks 
and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Company has 
neither transferred nor retained substantially all the 
risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred 
control of the asset.
	
When the Company has transferred its rights to 
receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into 
a pass-through arrangement, it evaluates if and to 
what extent it has retained the risks and rewards of 
ownership. When it has neither transferred nor retained 
substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset, 
nor transferred control of the asset, the Company 
continues to recognise the transferred asset to the 
extent of the Company’s continuing involvement. In 
that case, the Company also recognises an associated 
liability. The transferred asset and the associated 
liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights 
and obligations that the Company has retained.
	
Impairment of financial assets
	
In accordance with Ind AS 109, the Company applies 
expected credit loss (ECL) model for measurement and 
recognition of impairment loss on financial assets that 
are debt instruments, and are measured at amortised 
cost e.g., loans, debt securities, deposits, trade 
receivables and bank balance.
106
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 126
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
	
The 
Company 
follows 
‘simplified 
approach’ 
for 
recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade 
receivables. The application of simplified approach does 
not require the Company to track changes in credit risk. 
Rather, it recognises impairment loss allowance based 
on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from its 
initial recognition. 
	
For recognition of impairment loss on other financial 
assets and risk exposure, the Company determines that 
whether there has been a significant increase in the 
credit risk since initial recognition. If credit risk has not 
increased significantly, 12-month expected credit loss 
(ECL) is used to provide for impairment loss. However, 
if credit risk has increased significantly, lifetime ECL is 
used. If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of the 
instrument improves such that there is no longer a 
significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, 
then the entity reverts to recognising impairment loss 
allowance based on 12-month ECL.
	
Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting 
from all possible default events over the expected life of 
a financial instrument. The 12-month ECL is a portion of 
the lifetime ECL which results from default events that 
are possible within 12 months after the reporting date. 
	
ECL is the difference between all contractual cash flows 
that are due to the Company in accordance with the 
contract and all the cash flows that the entity expects 
to receive (i.e., all cash shortfalls), discounted at the 
original EIR.
	
The Company uses a provision matrix to determine 
impairment loss allowance on portfolio of its trade 
receivables. The provision matrix is based on its 
historically observed default rates over the expected 
life of the trade receivables and is adjusted for forward-
looking estimates. At every reporting date, the historical 
observed default rates are updated and changes in the 
forward-looking estimates are analyzed.
	
ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognized 
during the period is recognized as income/ expense in 
the statement of profit and loss. This amount is reflected 
under the head other expenses in the statement of 
profit and loss. For the financial assets measured as 
at amortised cost, ECL is presented as an allowance, 
i.e., as an integral part of the measurement of those 
assets in the balance sheet. The allowance reduces 
the net carrying amount. Until the asset meets write-
off criteria, the Company does not reduce impairment 
allowance from the gross carrying amount.
 
Financial liabilities
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, 
as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives 
designated as hedging instruments in an effective 
hedge, as appropriate.
	
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value 
and, in the case of loans and borrowings and payables, 
net of directly attributable transaction costs.
	
The Company’s financial liabilities include borrowings, 
lease liabilities, trade and other payables. 
	
Subsequent measurement
	
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on 
their classification as described below: 
	
Loans and borrowings
	
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost 
using the EIR method. Gains and losses are recognised in 
profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised as well 
as through the EIR amortisation process.
	
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any 
discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs 
that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation 
is included as finance costs in the statement of profit 
and loss.
	
Derecognition
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation 
under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. 
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another 
from the same lender on substantially different terms, 
or the terms of an existing liability are substantially 
modified, such an exchange or modification is treated 
as the derecognition of the original liability and the 
recognition of a new liability. The difference in the 
respective carrying amounts is recognised in the 
statement of profit or loss.
	
Embedded derivatives
	
An embedded derivative is a component of a hybrid 
(combined) instrument that also includes a non-
derivative host contract – with the effect that some of 
the cash flows of the combined instrument vary in a 
way similar to a stand-alone derivative. An embedded 
107
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 127
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
derivative causes some or all of the cash flows that 
otherwise would be required by the contract to be 
modified according to a specified interest rate, financial 
instrument price, commodity price, foreign exchange 
rate, index of prices or rates, credit rating or credit 
index, or other variable, provided in the case of a non-
financial variable that the variable is not specific to a 
party to the contract.  
	
Reassessment only occurs if there is either a change 
in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies 
the cash flows that would otherwise be required or a 
reclassification of a financial asset out of the fair value 
through profit or loss.
	
If the hybrid contract contains a host that is a financial 
asset within the scope of Ind AS 109, the Company does 
not separate embedded derivatives. Rather, it applies 
the classification requirements contained in Ind AS 109 
to the entire hybrid contract. Derivatives embedded in 
all other host contracts are accounted for as separate 
derivatives and recorded at fair value if their economic 
characteristics and risks are not closely related to those 
of the host contracts and the host contracts are not held 
for trading or designated at fair value though profit or 
loss. These embedded derivatives are measured at fair 
value with changes in fair value recognized in profit or 
loss, unless designated as effective hedging instruments.
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset 
and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet 
if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset 
the recognised amounts and there is an intention to 
settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the 
liabilities simultaneously.
o. 
Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the standalone balance 
sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-
term deposits with an original maturity of three months 
or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of 
changes in value.
	
For the purpose of the standalone statement of cash 
flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash 
and short-term deposits, as defined above, net of 
outstanding bank overdrafts as they are considered an 
integral part of the Company’s cash management.
p. 
Leases
 
The Company as a lessee
	
The Company’s lease asset classes primarily consist 
of leases for land and office premises. The Company 
assesses whether a contract contains a lease, at 
inception of a contract. A contract is, or contains, a 
lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use 
of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange 
for consideration. To assess whether a contract 
conveys the right to control the use of an identified 
asset, the Company assesses whether: (i) the contact 
involves the use of an identified asset (ii) the Company 
has substantially all of the economic benefits from use 
of the asset through the period of the lease and (iii) the 
Company has the right to direct the use of the asset.
	
At the date of commencement of the lease, the 
Company recognizes a right-of-use asset (“ROU”) and a 
corresponding lease liability for all lease arrangements 
in which it is a lessee, except for leases with a term 
of twelve months or less (short-term leases) and 
low value leases. For these short-term and low value 
leases, the Company recognizes the lease payments as 
an operating expense on a straight-line basis over the 
term of the lease.
	
Certain lease arrangements includes the options to 
extend or terminate the lease before the end of the 
lease term. ROU assets and lease liabilities includes 
these options when it is reasonably certain that they 
will be exercised.
	
The right-of-use assets are initially recognized at cost, 
which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability 
adjusted for any lease payments made at or prior to the 
commencement date of the lease plus any initial direct 
costs less any lease incentives. They are subsequently 
measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses, if any.
	
Right-of-use 
assets 
are 
depreciated 
from 
the 
commencement date on a straight-line basis over 
the shorter of the lease term and useful life of the 
underlying asset. Right of use assets are evaluated 
for recoverability whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts 
may not be recoverable. For the purpose of impairment 
testing, the recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of 
the fair value less cost to sell and the value-in-use) 
is determined on an individual asset basis unless the 
asset does not generate cash flows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, 
the recoverable amount is determined for the Cash 
Generating Unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.
	
The lease liability is initially measured at amortized 
cost at the present value of the future lease payments. 
The lease payments are discounted using the interest 
rate implicit in the lease or, if not readily determinable, 
using the incremental borrowing rates in the country 
of domicile of these leases. Lease liabilities are 
108
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 128
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
remeasured with a corresponding adjustment to the 
related right of use asset if the Company changes its 
assessment if whether it will exercise an extension or a 
termination option.
	
Lease liability and ROU asset have been separately 
presented in the standalone balance sheet and lease 
payments have been classified as financing cash flows.
q. 
Earnings/ (loss) per share (EPS)
	
Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit/
(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders by the 
weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding 
during the year excluding the treasury shares.
	
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the 
profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders by the 
weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding 
during the year plus the weighted average number of 
Equity shares that would be issued on conversion of all 
the dilutive potential Equity shares into Equity shares.
r. 
Treasury shares
	
Own equity instruments that are reacquired (treasury 
shares) are recognised at cost and deducted from 
equity. No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss 
on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the 
Company’s own equity instruments. Any difference 
between the carrying amount and the consideration, if 
reissued, is recognised in other reserve.
s. 
Segment reporting
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner 
consistent with the internal reporting provided to the 
chief operating decision-maker. The Chief Operating 
decision-maker is responsible for allocating resources 
and assessing performance of the operating segments 
and makes strategic decisions. Refer note 33 for 
segment information presented.
t. 
Use of estimates 
	
The Company is required to make estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, 
liabilities, disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date 
of the financial statements and the reported amounts 
of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. 
Actual results could differ from those estimates. The 
Company bases its estimates on historical experience 
and on various other assumptions that are believed to 
be reasonable, the results of which form the basis for 
making judgements about carrying values of assets  
and liabilities.
u. 
Exceptional Items
	
On certain occasions, the size, type or incidence of an 
item of income or expense, pertaining to the ordinary 
activities of the Company is such that its disclosure 
improves the understanding of the performance of the 
Company. Such income or expense is classified as an 
exceptional item and accordingly disclosed in the financial 
statements. Significant impact on the financial statements 
arising from impairment of investments in subsidiaries 
and associates, gain/ loss on disposal of subsidiaries and 
associates (other than major lines of business that meet 
the definition of a discontinued operation) are considered 
and reported as exceptional items.
v. 
Contributed Equity
 
Equity shares are classified as equity.
	
The transaction costs of an equity transaction are 
accounted for as a deduction from equity (net of any 
related income tax benefit) to the extent they are 
incremental costs directly attributable to the equity 
transaction that otherwise would have been avoided. 
Qualifying transaction costs incurred in anticipation of 
an issuance of equity instruments is deferred on the 
balance sheet until the equity instrument is recognised. 
Deferred costs are subsequently reclassified as a 
deduction from equity when the equity instruments 
are recognised. If the equity instruments are not 
subsequently issued, the deferred transaction costs 
are charged off to profit or loss.
	
The transaction costs incurred with respect to the IPO 
of the Company as reduced by the amount recovered 
from the selling shareholders are allocated between 
new issue of shares and listing of existing equity shares. 
The costs attributable to listing of existing shares is 
recognised in profit or loss and the costs attributable to 
new issuance of shares is recognised in equity.
109
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 129
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
3(a). Property, plant and equipment
Particulars
Computers
Furniture 
and 
Fittings
Leasehold 
Improvements
Vehicles
Office 
Equipments
Plant & 
Machinery^
Total
Gross carrying amount
As at April 1, 2020
 3,230 
 72 
 269 
 15 
 309 
 1,256 
 5,151 
Additions
 296 
 3 
 1 
 8 
 43 
 1,358 
 1,709 
Disposals
 44 
 33 
 198 
 11 
 83 
 2 
 371 
As at March 31, 2021 
 3,482 
 42 
 72 
 12 
 269 
 2,612 
 6,489 
As at April 1, 2021
 3,482 
 42 
 72 
 12 
 269 
 2,612 
 6,489 
Additions
 639 
 5 
 9 
 - 
 27 
 4,057 
 4,737 
Disposals
 124 
 22 
 - 
 - 
 26 
 * 
 172 
As at March 31, 2022 
 3,997 
 25 
 81 
 12 
 270 
 6,669 
 11,054 
Accumulated depreciation 
As at April 1, 2020
 2,024 
 45 
 137 
 10 
 167 
 338 
 2,721 
For the year
 531 
 5 
 107 
 2 
 37 
 675 
 1,357 
Disposals
 39 
 22 
 198 
 9 
 70 
 1 
 339 
As at March 31, 2021
 2,516 
 28 
 46 
 3 
 134 
 1,012 
 3,739 
As at April 1, 2021
 2,516 
 28 
 46 
 3 
 134 
 1,012 
 3,739 
For the year
 524 
 4 
 9 
 2 
 26 
 1,476 
 2,041 
Disposals
 115 
 19 
 - 
 - 
 23 
 * 
 157 
As at March 31, 2022
 2,925 
 13 
 55 
 5 
 137 
 2,488 
 5,623 
Net carrying amount
As at March 31, 2022
 1,072 
 12 
 26 
 7 
 133 
 4,181 
 5,431 
As at March 31, 2021
 966 
 14 
 26 
 9 
 135 
 1,600 
 2,750 
Particulars
 Right-of-use 
Leasehold Land 
 Right-of-use 
Office Premises 
 Total 
Gross Carrying Amount
As at April 1, 2020
 844 
 1,999 
 2,843 
Additions
 - 
 41 
 41 
Disposals (refer note below)
 - 
 1,321 
 1,321 
As at March 31, 2021
 844 
 719 
 1,563 
As at April 1, 2021
 844 
 719 
 1,563 
Additions
 - 
 1,928 
 1,928 
Disposals (refer note below)
 - 
 6 
 6 
As at March 31, 2022
 844 
 2,641 
 3,485 
Notes:
(i)	 Capital work in progress (Refer note 3(c))
	
Capital work in progress mainly comprises of servers and electrical devices. Further, Capital work-in-progress includes 
expenditure of H 40 (March 31, 2021: H 41) relating to expenses incurred on construction of office premises.
(ii)	 Refer to note 28 (c) for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
^ Plant and machinery includes Gross carrying amount H 4,678 (March 31, 2021: H 1,831),  Accumulated depreciation H 1,875 (March 31, 2021: H 780), Net 
carrying amount H 2,803 (March 31, 2021: H 1,051) of point-of-sale machines and sound boxes installed at customer premise.
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
3 (b). Leases
A.	 Right -of-use assets
110
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 130
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
3 (b). Leases (Contd..)
Particulars
 Right-of-use 
Leasehold Land 
 Right-of-use 
Office Premises 
 Total 
Accumulated Depreciation
As at April 1, 2020
 10 
 304 
 314 
Charge for the Year
 10 
 174 
 184 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2021
 20 
 478 
 498 
As at April 1, 2021
 20 
 478 
 498 
Charge for the Year
 10 
 191 
 201 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2022
 30 
 669 
 699 
Net Carrying Amount
As at March 31, 2022
 814 
 1,972 
 2,786 
As at March 31, 2021
 824 
 241 
 1,065 
B.	 Lease Liabilities
C.	 Amounts recognised in Statement of profit and loss
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Lease Liability on Land- Current
 58 
 114 
Lease Liability on Land- Non-Current
 - 
 62 
Lease Liability on Office Premises- Current
 260 
 65 
Lease Liability on Office Premises- Non-Current
 1,724 
 199 
Total
 2,042 
 440 
Total lease liability - Current
 318 
 179 
Total lease liability - Non-Current
 1,724 
 261 
Particulars
Notes
For the year ended  
March 31, 2022
For the year ended  
March 31, 2021
Depreciation charge of Right-of-use assets
Land
 10 
 10 
Office Premises*
 191 
 174 
Total 
18
 201 
 184 
Particulars
Notes
For the year ended  
March 31, 2022
For the year ended  
March 31, 2021
Interest expense (included in finance cost)
19
 75 
 103 
Expense relating to short-term lease (included in other 
expenses)
20
 42 
 9 
	
*  This amount is including cross charge of H 7 (March 31, 2021: 24). Net depreciation charge of Right-of-use assets in profit & loss is H 194 (March 
31, 2021: 160).	
	
The lease term is reassessed if an option is actually exercised (or not exercised) or the Company becomes obliged to 
exercise (or not exercise) it. The assessment of reasonable certainty is only revised if a significant event or a significant 
change in circumstances occurs, which affects this assessment, and that is within the control of the lessee. During 
the year ended March 31, 2022, the Company has given notice to vacate certain office premises. This has been 
accounted as lease termination. Hence, in accordance with Ind AS 116, Lease Liability has been re-measured by H 9  
111
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 131
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
( March 31, 2021: 1,360) with corresponding adjustment to Right of Use assets amounting to H 6 (March 31, 2021: 1,321) 
and the remaining balance has been included in Miscellaneous Income disclosed under Other Income in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss.
	
The total cash outflow for leases for the year ended is H 314 (March 31, 2021: 383)	
 
Extension and termination options:
	
Extension and termination options are included in ceratin leases. These are used to maximise operational flexibility in 
terms of managing the assets used in the Company’s operations. In certain cases, the extension and termination options 
held are exercisable only by the Company and not by the respective lessor.
3 (c). Capital-work-in progress aging schedule
	
Capital-work-in progress (CWIP) for the year ended March 31, 2022
3 (b). Leases (Contd..)
CWIP
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 Years
Projects in progress
56
2
2
37
 97 
Intangible assets under development
Amount for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 Years
Projects in progress
14
 - 
 1 
 - 
 15 
	
Capital-work-in progress (CWIP) for the year ended March 31, 2021
CWIP
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 Years
Projects in progress
 152 
 8 
 39 
 3 
 202 
Intangible assets under development
Amount for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 Years
Projects in progress
 23 
 1 
 - 
 1 
 25 
3 (d). Intangible assets under development aging schedule
	
Intangible assets under development aging schedule for the year ended March 31, 2022
	
Intangible assets under development aging schedule for the year ended March 31, 2021
112
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 132
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
4. Intangible assets
Particulars
 Software 
 Internally 
Generated Software 
 Total 
Gross carrying amount
As at April 1, 2020
 407 
 1 
 408 
Additions
 22 
 - 
 22 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2021
 429 
 1 
 430 
As at April 1, 2021
 429 
 1 
 430 
Additions
 41 
 - 
 41 
Disposals
 191 
 - 
 191 
As at March 31, 2022
 279 
 1 
 280 
Accumulated  amortisation
As at April 1, 2020
 288 
 1 
 289 
For the year
 51 
 - 
 51 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2021
 339 
 1 
 340 
As at April 1, 2021
 339 
 1 
 340 
For the year
 47 
 * 
 47 
Disposals
 190 
 - 
 190 
As at March 31, 2022
 196 
 1 
 197 
Net carrying amount
As at March 31, 2022
 83 
 - 
 83 
As at March 31, 2021
 90 
 * 
 90 
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
5. Investment in subsidiaries - Non Current
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Investment in equity instruments
Unquoted equity shares (Fully paid up)
One97 Communications Nigeria Limited
 3 
 3 
10,000,000 (March 31 2021 : 10,000,000) equity shares of NGN 1 each
One97 Communications FZ LLC
 21 
 21 
1,500 (March 31 2021 : 1,500) equity shares of AED 1000 each
One 97 Communications India Limited
 832 
 832 
83,150,000 (March 31 2021 : 83,150,000) equity shares of INR10 each
One97 Communications Singapore Private Limited
 940 
 620 
3,356,100 (March 31 2021 : 3,356,100) equity shares of SGD 1 each
One97 USA Inc
 33 
 33 
532,000 (March 31 2021 : 532,000) equity shares of USD 1 each 
Paytm Entertainment Limited
 2,691 
 2,317 
78,873,755 (March 31 2021 : 78,873,755) equity shares of face value of H 10 
each
Paytm Money Limited
 2,701 
 2,641 
258,870,000 (March 31 2021 : 258,870,000) equity shares of face value of H 10 
each
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited (Refer note (iii) below)
 735 
 831 
113
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 133
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
51,673 (March 31 2021 : 51,673) equity shares of H 10 each 
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited (Refer note (ii) below)
 309 
 400 
974,880 (March 31 2021 : 974,880) equity shares of H 10 each 
Urja Money Private Limited
 227 
 220 
2,102,245 (March 31 2021 : 2,102,245) equity shares of H 10 each 
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 180 
 173 
201,634 (March 31 2021 : 201,634) equity shares of H 10 each
Little Internet Private Limited (Refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
13,997,263 (March 31 2021 : 13,997,263) equity shares of face value of H 10 each
Paytm Services Private Limited (Formerly known as Balance Technology 
Private Limited)
 52 
 50 
3,000,000 (March 31 2021 : 3,000,000) equity shares of face value of H 10 each
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
 774 
 776 
75,000,000 (March 31 2021 : 75,000,000) equity shares of face value of H 10 
each
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 1,175 
 500 
50,000,000 (March 31 2021 : 50,000,000) equity shares of face value of H 10 
each
Total (A)
 10,673 
 9,417 
Unquoted compulsorily convertible preference shares (Fully paid up)
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 22 
 22 
35,710 (March 31 2021 : 35,710) compulsory convertible preference shares of 
H 10 each
Total (B)
 22 
 22 
Grand Total [A+B]
 10,695 
 9,439 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 10,695 
 9,439 
Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of investment
 4,880 
 4,548 
5. Investment in subsidiaries - Non Current (Contd..)
(i)	 Net of provision for impairment amounting to H 2,713 (March 31, 2021: 2,713).
(ii)	 Net of provision for impairment amounting to H 1,317 (March 31, 2021 : 1,185). Also Refer note 21.
(iii)	 Net of provision for impairment amounting to H 850 (March 31, 2021: 650). Also Refer note 21.
6. Investment in associates - Non Current
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Unquoted equity shares (Fully paid up)
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 1,560 
 1,560 
156,003,900 (March 31 2021 : 156,003,900) equity shares of H 10 each
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 10 
 10 
980,000 (March 31, 2021 : 980,000) equity shares of H 10 each
Paytm Life Insurance Limited
 * 
 * 
49,000 (March 31, 2021 : 49,000) equity shares of H 10 each
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 20 
 20 
114
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 134
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
6. Investment in associates - Non Current (Contd..)
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
2,000,000 (March 31, 2021 : 2,000,000) equity shares of H 10 each
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited (Formerly known as QorQl Private Limited) 
(refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
2,560,938 (March 31, 2021 : 2,560,938) equity shares of H 10 each
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited (refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
2,879 (March 31, 2021 : 2,879) equity shares of H 10 each
Total (A)
 1,590 
 1,590 
Unquoted compulsorily convertible preference shares (Fully paid up)
Socomo Technologies Private Limited (refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
28,800 (March 31, 2021 : 28,800) Compulsorily Convertible Preference share 
of face value of H 1 each
Infinity Transoft Solutions Private Limited
 100 
 100 
3,618 (March 31, 2021 : 3,618) Compulsorily Convertible Preference share of 
face value of H 10 each
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited (refer note (i) below)
 242 
 272 
72,373 (March 31, 2021 : 72,373) Compulsorily Convertible Preference share 
of face value of H 100 each
Total (B)
 342 
 372 
Grand Total [A+B]
 1,932 
 1,962 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 1,932 
 1,962 
Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of investment
 784 
 754 
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Investments at amortised cost
Debt instruments (quoted)
LIC Housing Finance Limited 7.03%  28 Dec 2021
 - 
 500 
Nil (March 31, 2021 : 500) Redeemable Non Convertible Debentures of H 
1,000,000 each
HDFC Series W-001 7.15% 16 Sep 2021
 - 
 251 
Nil (March 31, 2021 : 250) Redeemable Non Convertible Debentures of H 
1,003,676 each
LIC Housing Finance Limited 7.03% 28 Dec 2021
 - 
 500 
Nil (March 31, 2021 : 500) Redeemable Non Convertible Debentures of H 
999,978 each
Kotak Mahindra Investments Ltd 0% 28 Oct 2021
 - 
 221 
Nil (March 31, 2021 : 250) Redeemable Non Convertible Debentures of H 
883,748 each
Total Current investments
 - 
 1,472 
(i)	 Net of provision for impairment amounting to H 26 (March 31, 2021: 26), H 428 (March 31, 2021 : 428) and H 330 (March 
31, 2021 : 300) for Paytm Insuretech Private Limited, Socomo Technologies Private Limited and Eatgood Technologies 
Private Limited, respectively.
	
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
7(a) Other investments - Current
115
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 135
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
7(b) Other investments - Non-Current
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Investments at fair value through OCI (refer note (ii) below)
Unquoted equity shares (Fully paid up)
ZEPO Technologies Private Limited
 23 
 23 
3,458 (March 31, 2021 : 3,458) Equity shares of face value H 10 each
Red Pixels Ventures Limited (Refer note (iii) below)
 - 
 4 
Nil (March 31, 2021 : 1,093) Equity shares of face value H 10 each
Total (A) 
 23 
 27 
Investments at fair value through Profit and loss
Unquoted Compulsorily Convertible Preference shares (Fully paid up)
Raining Clouds Tech Private Limited (Refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
3,620 (March 31, 2021 : 3,620) Redeemable Convertible Preference Shares of 
H 10 each
Avenues Payments India Private Limited (Refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
11,379 (March 31, 2021 : 11,379) Compulsorily Convertible Preference share of 
face value of H 100 each
Loginext Solutions Private Limited (refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
279,443 (March 31, 2021 : 279,443) Compulsorily Convertible Preference 
share of face value of H 10 each
Rooter Sports Technologies Private Limited
 40 
 40 
1,160 (March 31, 2021 : 1,160) Compulsorily Convertible Preference share of 
face value H 10 each
 40 
 40 
Unquoted equity shares (Fully paid up)
Paytm E-commerce Private Limited
 - 
 53 
Nil (March 31, 2021 : 4,837) Equity shares of face value H 10 each held by 
Paytm Associate Benefit Welfare Trust (formerly known as One97 Employee 
Welfare Trust)
 - 
 53 
Unquoted optionally convertible debentures (Fully paid up)
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 32 
 - 
 29,998,620 (March 31, 2021 : Nil) 10% Debentures of face value H 10 each 
Admirable Software Limited 
 241 
 - 
 23,109,232 (March 31, 2021 : Nil) 10% Debentures of face value H 10 each 
Nearbuy India Private Limited 
 58 
 - 
 13,000,000 (March 31, 2021 : Nil) 10% Debentures of face value H 10 each 
Urja Money Private Limited
 32 
 - 
 3,000,000  (March 31, 2021 : Nil) 10% Debentures of face value H 10 each 
 363 
 - 
Total (B) 
 403 
 93 
Total Non-Current investments [A+B]
 426 
 120 
Total Current Investments
 - 
 1,472 
Total Non-Current Investments
 426 
 120 
 426 
 1,592 
Aggregate book value of unquoted investments
 426 
 120 
Aggregate book value of quoted investments
 - 
 1,472 
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 - 
 1,472 
116
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 136
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
7(b) Other investments - Non-Current (Contd..)
Notes to 7(b) 		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(i)	 The Company holds these investments, however the fair value is Nil.	
(ii)	 Investments at fair value through OCI (fully paid) reflect investment in unquoted equity securities. Refer note 30 for 
determination of their fair values.
(iii)	 Investment disposed off during the year.
7(c) Loans
Particulars
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Inter Corporate Loans#
	
with related parties (refer note 25)##
 1,681 
 - 
 551 
 541 
	
Others
 - 
 - 
 500 
 554 
Less: Loss allowance for inter corporate loans
 - 
 - 
 (537)
 (223)
 1,681 
 - 
 514 
 872 
Particulars
As at
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Secured, considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
Unsecured, considered good
 1,681 
 - 
 514 
 872 
Loans which have significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 537 
 223 
Loans Credit Impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,681 
 - 
 1,051 
 1,095 
Less: Loss allowance for inter corporate loans
 - 
 - 
 (537)
 (223)
Total Loans
 1,681 
 - 
 514 
 872 
Break-up of security details
#Inter corporate loans are given after complying with the provisions of section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013. The loans have been given in 
accordance with terms and conditions of the underlying agreements. Outstanding loans carry interest rate in the range of 5.10% to 12% (March 31, 
2021 : 5.10% to 12%).
## Loan of H 803, H 402 and H 408 has been given to Paytm First Games Private Limited on June 7, 2021, September 30, 2021 and January 27, 2022 
respectively. The Company has the rights of conversion into a variable number of shares in Paytm First Games Private Limited (Joint venture of Paytm 
Entertainment Limited, wholly owned subsidiary) at fair market value and with mutual consent, during the tenure of loan. The interest is payable at the 
end of the repayment period. The loan has been fair valued through profit and loss (FVTPL) since it does not meet the SPPI test. 
The same is presented in the non-current Inter Corporate Loans as follows:
Particulars
Amount
Face value of loan given
 1,613 
Fair value of loan on inception
 1,317 
Deemed investment in Paytm First Games Private Limited
 296 
The Company has not granted loans to its directors, KMPs and the related parties (as defined under Companies Act, 2013) 
which are repayable on demand or without specifying any terms or period of repayment. In certain cases, the Company has 
the right to demand for payment before specified period.
117
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 137
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
The details of such loans given to related parties are as follows:
7(c) Loans (Contd..)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Amount of loan or advance in the nature of loan outstanding as specified 
above
 870 
 541 
Percentage to the total Loans and Advances in the nature of loans
32%
49%
Details of loans (gross) as per Section 186 (4) of Companies Act, 2013 and Disclosure as per Regulation 
34 (3) read with Part A of Schedule V of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 in respect of loans/ advances/ investments outstanding as at year end
Particulars
Interest 
Rates
Gross inter corporate loans 
outstanding as at
Maximum amount of inter 
corporate loans outstanding 
during the year
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Paytm First Games Private Limited #
8.00%
 1,679 
 - 
 1,679 
 - 
Paytm Financial Services Limited ##
5.10%
 471 
 451 
 471 
 451 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
12.00%
 293 
 - 
 293 
 - 
Little Internet Private Limited
12.00%
 80 
 80 
 80 
 80 
Urja Money Private Limited
12.00%
 26 
 10 
 26 
 10 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
12.00%
 - 
 - 
 20 
 - 
Note:
(i)	 The above loans have been provided for general corporate purposes.
	
# Excluding fair valuation impact amounting to H 317 (March 31, 2021: Nil)
	
## Loan has been repaid subsequent to the year end.
7(d) Other financial assets
Particulars
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Security deposits
 705 
 1,228 
 1,410 
 908 
Less: Loss allowance for security deposits
 (37)
 (1)
 - 
 - 
A
 668 
 1,227 
 1,410 
 908 
Bank balances
Deposits with original maturity for more than 12 
months (Refer footnote (b) and (d) to note 10(a))
 38,700 
 2,000 
 - 
 - 
Others
Other advances recoverable in cash
 - 
 - 
 116 
61
Interest accrued on Debt Instruments measured at 
amortised cost
 - 
 - 
 - 
 46 
Interest accrued but not due on fixed deposits
 630 
 98 
 502 
 1,377 
Interest accrued on security deposit
 - 
 - 
 138 
 87  
Other receivable from other parties (Refer note 34)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6,251 
B
 39,330 
 2,098 
 756 
7,822
118
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 138
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
7(d) Other financial assets (Contd..)
Particulars
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Amount recoverable from Payment Gateway 
banks*
Unsecured, considered good
Amount recoverable from other parties
 - 
 - 
 1,109 
5,050
Amount recoverable from related parties  
(Refer note 25)
 - 
 - 
 17,342 
8,546
Unsecured, considered doubtful
Amount recoverable from other parties
 - 
 - 
 132 
 21 
 - 
 - 
 18,583 
 13,617 
Less : Loss allowance
 - 
 - 
 (132)
 (21)
C
 - 
 - 
 18,451 
13,596
Unsecured, considered good
Amount recoverable from related parties  
(Refer note 25)#
 1,780 
 - 
 1,361 
 704 
Amount recoverable from other parties  
(Refer note 34)
 - 
 - 
 13 
 199 
Amount recoverable from other parties
 - 
 - 
 348 
 - 
Unsecured, considered doubtful 
Amount recoverable from related parties  
(Refer note 25)
 - 
 - 
 37 
 37  
 1,780 
 - 
 1,759 
940
Less: Loss allowance for recoverable from related 
parties
 - 
 - 
 (37)
 (37)  
D
 1,780 
 - 
 1,722 
903
Total [A+B+C+D]
 41,778 
 3,325 
 22,339 
23,229
#Includes an amount of H 10 (March 31, 2021 : H 2,278) which has been set off against payable balance of H 4 (March 31, 2021 : H 2,111) as the Company 
has contractual right to offset the advance against the payable balance and also has the intention to settle the same on net basis.
* The amount represent recoverable from payment gateway banks on account of credit card/debit card and net banking/UPI transactions related to 
third party merchants.
Break up of financial assets
Particulars
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
At cost
Investment in subsidiaries (Refer note 5)
 10,695 
 9,439 
 - 
 - 
Investment in associates (Refer note 6)
 1,932 
 1,962 
 - 
 - 
 12,627 
 11,401 
 - 
 - 
At amortised cost
Trade receivables (Refer note 8)
 - 
 - 
 7,059 
4,915
Cash and cash equivalents (Refer note 10(a))
 - 
 - 
 10,664 
 2,948 
Bank balances other than cash and cash 
equivalents (Refer note 10(b))
 - 
 - 
 37,690 
 22,778 
Inter corporate loans (Refer note 7(c))
 319 
 - 
 514 
 872 
Other investments (Refer note 7(a))
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,472 
Others (Refer note7(d))
 41,778 
 3,325 
 22,339 
16,978
 42,097 
 3,325 
 78,266 
49,963
119
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 139
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
At fair value
Other investments at fair value through OCI (Refer 
note 7(b))
 23 
 27 
 - 
 - 
Inter corporate loans at fair value through Profit 
and loss (Refer note 7(c))
 1,362 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Investments at fair value through Profit and loss 
(Refer note 7(b))
 403 
 93 
 - 
 - 
Other receivable from other parties- Receivable at 
FVTPL (Rerfer Note 7(d))
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6,251 
 1,788 
 120 
 - 
 6,251 
7(d) Other financial assets (Contd..)
8. Trade receivables	
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Trade Receivables
 6,231 
5,293
Receivables from related parties (Refer Notes (i) & (ii) below)
 2,506 
 1,077 
Receivables from other parties (Refer note 34)
 30 
 77 
Less: Loss allowance
 (1,708)
 (1,532)
 7,059 
4,915
Current
 7,059 
4,915
Non-current
 - 
 - 
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Trade receivables
Secured, considered good
 - 
 - 
Unsecured, considered good
 7,918 
5,741
Trade receivable which have significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
Trade receivable Credit Impaired
 849 
 706 
 8,767 
6,447
Impairment allowance on trade receivables
Less: Loss allowance
 (1,708)
 (1,532)
Total Trade receivables
 7,059 
4,915
Break-up of security details
(i)	 No trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the Company either severally or jointly with 
any other person. Nor any trade or other receivable are due from firms or private companies respectively in which any 
director is a partner, a director or a member, except as disclosed in note 25.
(ii)	 For related party receivables and related loss allowance, Refer note 25.
(iii)	 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and generally carry a credit period of 30 days.
120
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 140
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
8. Trade receivables (Contd..)
Trade Receivables ageing schedule for year ended March 31, 2022
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
Dues#
Not 
due
Less 
than 6 
months
6 
months 
-1 year
1-2 
years
  2-3 
years 
 More 
than 3 
years 
 Total 
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables – considered 
good
 2,993 
 1,509 
 2,308 
 474 
 392 
 135 
 107 
 7,918 
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – which 
have significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)	Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)	Disputed Trade Receivables–considered 
good 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v)	Disputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)	Disputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
 - 
 * 
 * 
 12 
 26 
 3 
 808 
 849 
Total
 2,993  1,509 
 2,308 
 486 
 418 
 138 
 915  8,767 
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
Dues#
Not 
due
Less 
than 6 
months
6 
months 
-1 year
1-2 
years
  2-3 
years 
 More 
than 3 
years 
 Total 
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables – considered 
good
 1,445 
 1,354 
 1,920 
 419 
 290 
 126 
 187 
 5,741 
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – which 
have significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)	Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)	Disputed Trade Receivables–considered 
good 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v)	Disputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)	Disputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
 - 
 - 
 3 
 - 
 18 
 117 
 568 
 706 
Total
 1,445 
 1,354 
 1,923 
 419 
 308 
 243 
 755  6,447 
Trade Receivables ageing schedule for year ended March 31, 2021
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
#The receivable is ‘unbilled’ because the Company has not yet issued an invoice; however, the balance has been included under trade receivables (as 
opposed to contract assets) because the Company has an unconditional right to consideration.
121
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 141
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
9. Other assets
Particulars
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Capital advances                                
Unsecured, considered good 
 762 
 179 
 - 
 - 
Doubtful 
 1 
 1 
 - 
 - 
 763 
 180 
 - 
 - 
Less: Provision for doubtful advances 
 (1)
 (1)
 - 
 - 
A 
 762 
 179 
 - 
 - 
Advances other than capital advances 
Advances to vendors 
Unsecured, considered good 
 1,636 
 1,776 
 3,500 
 4,645 
Doubtful 
 - 
 - 
 92 
 52 
 1,636 
 1,776 
 3,592 
 4,697 
Less: Provision for doubtful advances 
 - 
 - 
 (92)
 (52)
B 
 1,636 
 1,776 
 3,500 
 4,645 
Others 
Balances with government authorities : 
	
Goods and services tax input credit 
 500 
 627 
 7,363 
 5,467 
Prepayments 
 133 
 202 
 1,215 
 735 
Advances to related parties* (Refer note 25) 
 - 
 - 
 1,429 
 3,119 
C 
 633 
 829 
 10,007 
 9,321 
Total (A+B+C)  
 3,031 
 2,784 
 13,507 
 13,966 
*No advances are recoverable from directors or other officers of the Company either severally or jointly with any other person. Nor any advance are 
recoverable from firms or private companies respectively in which any director is a partner, a director or a member, except as disclosed in note 25.
10(a). Cash and cash equivalents
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Cash on hand  
 * 
 1 
Balance with banks 
-	
On current accounts 
 10,664 
 1,129 
-	
Deposits with original maturity for less than 3 months 
 - 
 1,818 
 10,664 
 2,948 
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
Notes :
(a)	 There are no repatriation restrictions with regard to cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the reporting period and 
prior period.
(b)	 Fixed deposits amounting to H 32 (March 31, 2021: H 9,609) included in note 7(d) and 10(b) are marked under lien by 
banks for providing bank overdraft, working capital demand loan and issuing bank guarantees under various contracts.
(c)	 Balance with banks on current accounts includes balance of Initial Public Offer (IPO) proceeds of H 736 (March 31, 2021: 
Nil) which will be utilised as stated in the prospectus for IPO.
(d)	 Fixed deposits amounting to H 70,900 (March 31, 2021: Nil) included in note 7(d) and 10(b) will be utilised as stated in the 
prospectus for IPO.
122
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 142
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Equity shares
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
 Number 
 Amount 
 Number 
 Amount 
Shares outstanding at the beginning of the year#
 60,260,013 
 605 
 60,187,655 
 604 
Shares issued during the year##
 38,646,058 
 39 
 29,979 
 * 
Shares issued during the year – ESOP
 4,627,616 
 5 
 42,379 
 * 
Adjustment for Sub-Division of Equity Shares
 543,217,887 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Impact on derecognition of trust
 1,809,840 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Shares outstanding at the end of the year#
 648,561,414 
 649 
 60,260,013 
 605 
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
648,561,414 equity shares of H 1 each fully paid up (March 31, 2021 : 
60,482,404 equity shares of H 10 each fully paid up) 
 649 
 605 
Total issued, subscribed and fully paid-up share capital
 649 
 605 
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Deposits with original maturity of more than 3 months but less than 12 months 
(Refer footnote (b) and (d) to note 10(a)) 
 16,901 
 5,622 
Deposits with original maturity for more than 12 months (Refer footnote (b) 
and (d) to note 10(a)) 
 15,341 
 17,156 
Other deposits with banks# 
 5,448 
 - 
 37,690 
 22,778 
10(b). Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents	
#Deposits with banks amounting to H 5,448 (March 31, 2021 : Nil) are held by banks as security against bank guarantees.
11 (a). Share Capital
Particulars
 Number of Shares 
Amount
Authorised equity share capital
As at April 1, 2020
 104,106,600 
 1,041 
Increase/ (decrease) during the year
 - 
As at March 31, 2021
 104,106,600 
 1,041 
Increase/ (decrease) during the year
 - 
 - 
Adjustment for Sub-division of Equity Shares#
 936,959,400 
 - 
As at March 31, 2022
 1,041,066,000 
 1,041 
Terms/ rights attached to equity shares 
All the equity shares issued shall rank pari passu and have a par value of H 1 per share. Each shareholder is eligible for one 
vote per share held only.
#Pursuant to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on June 30, 2021, each equity share of face value 
of H 10 per share was sub-divided into ten equity shares of face value of H 1 per share, with effect from the record date, i.e., June 30, 2021.	
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up shares
a.	 Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting year
	
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the company
	
# Net of treasury shares Nil ( March 31, 2021: 222,391 and April 1, 2020: 247,370) of face value of H 10 each, at nil cost through Paytm Associate 
Benefit Welfare Trust (formerly known as One97 Employee Welfare Trust)
	
## Shares issued during the year includes 41,407 (March 31, 2021 : 24,979) of face value of H 10 each out of treasury shares
123
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 143
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
b.	 Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
11 (a). Share Capital (Contd..)
Name of shareholder
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Number of 
Shares held#
 % holding 
Number of 
Shares held
 % holding 
Antfin (Netherlands) Holding B.V. 
161,420,141
24.89%
 18,330,122 
30.31%
SVF India Holding (Cayman) Limited  
 113,262,230 
17.46%
 11,326,223 
18.73%
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma 
 57,673,032 
8.89%
 9,051,624 
14.97%
SAIF III Mauritius Company Limited 
 68,735,489 
10.60%
 7,491,061 
12.39%
Alibaba.com Singapore E-Commerce Private 
Limited 
 40,631,822 
6.26%
 4,428,214 
7.32%
SAIF Partners India IV Limited 
 - 
 - 
 3,180,202 
5.26%
	
#Pursuant to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on June 30, 2021, each equity share of face 
value of H 10 per share was sub-divided into ten equity shares of face value of H 1 per share, with effect from the record date, i.e., June 30, 
2021.	
c.	 Shares reserved for issue under options	
	
For details of shares reserved for issue under the employee stock options plan (ESOP) of the Company (refer note 24).
d.	 Aggregate number of bonus shares issued, shares bought back and share issued for consideration 
other than cash during the period of five years immediately preceding the reporting date:
	
The Company has not issued any shares for consideration other than cash during the current year (March 31, 2021: 
Nil shares; March 31, 2020: Nil shares; March 31, 2019: 333,035 shares; March 31, 2018: Nil shares; March 31, 2017: Nil 
shares). The Company has not issued bonus shares and has not bought back shares during the period of five years 
immediately preceding the reporting date.	
e.	 Shareholding of Promoters
Shares held by Promoters at the end of the year
% Change during 
the year
Promoter Name
No. of Shares
% of total shares
NIL
Not Applicable
	
As of March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021, the Company is a professionally managed company and does not have an 
identifiable promoter in terms of the Companies Act, 2013. Accordingly, disclosures related to promoter shareholding is 
not applicable.
11 (b). Other equity
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
1.	 Reserve and Surplus
	
	
Securities premium
 273,170 
 189,256 
	
	
Employee stock options outstanding account (ESOP Reserve)
 9,585 
 3,822 
	
	
Retained earnings
 (146,253)
 (123,814)
	
Total reserve and surplus (A)
 136,502 
 69,264 
124
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 144
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
11 (b). Other equity (Contd..)
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
	
(i)	 Securities premium
	
	
Opening balance
 189,256 
 188,957 
	
	
Add: transferred from ESOP Reserve on exercise of stock options	
 2,290 
 192 
	
	
Add: amount received on issue of shares
 83,023 
 107 
	
	
Add: exercise of share options
 2 
 - 
	
	
Less: amount utilised for share issue expenses
 (1,401)
 - 
	
	
Balance at the end of the year
 273,170 
 189,256 
	
(ii)	Employee stock options outstanding account (ESOP Reserve)
	
	
Opening balance
 3,822 
 3,030 
	
	
Add: share based payment expense
 7,498 
 867 
	
	
Add: share based payment for employees of group companies
 674 
 265 
	
	
Less: amount transferred to securities premium on exercise of stock 
options
 (2,290)
 (192)
	
	
Less: reversal on forfeiture of stock options
 (17)
 (148)
	
	
Less: adjustment on cancellation of ESOP
 (102)
 - 
	
	
Balance at the end of the year
 9,585 
 3,822 
	
(iii) Retained earnings
	
	
Opening balance
 (123,814)
 (108,451)
	
	
Loss for the year
 (23,251)
 (15,601)
	
	
Less: remeasurement of post-employee benefit obligation
 (18)
 (15)
	
	
Add: transfer from employee stock options outstanding account
 17 
 148 
	
	
Add: adjustment on cancellation of ESOP
 102 
 - 
	
	
Add: other adjustments#
 711 
 105 
	
	
Balance at the end of the year
 (146,253)
 (123,814)
2.	 Share application money pending allotment 
	
Opening balance
 2 
 * 
	
Less: exercise of share options
 (2)
 - 
	
Receipt of share application money (pending allotment)
 * 
 2 
	
Balance at the end of the year (B)
 * 
 2 
3.	 Other reserves- FVTOCI
	
Opening balance
 (26)
 (26)
	
Balance at the end of the year (C) 
 (26)
 (26)
Total other equity (A+B+C)
 136,476 
 69,240 
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company	
# Adjustment on settlement of incentive liability through Paytm Associate Benefit Welfare Trust (formerly known as One97 Employee Welfare Trust)
Nature and purpose of reserves
(i) Securities premium
	
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve is utilised in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act.	
(ii) Employee stock options outstanding account (ESOP Reserve)
	
Employee stock options outstanding account is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options issued to employees 
under the One 97 Employee Stock Option Plan.
125
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 145
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
(iii) FVTOCI Reserve
	
The Company has elected to recognise changes in the fair values of the certain investments in equity instruments in 
other comprehensive income. These changes are accumulated within the FVTOCI reserve within equity. The Company 
transfers amounts from this reserve to retained earning when relevant equity securities are derecognised.
12. Provisions
11 (b). Other equity (Contd..)
Particulars
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Provision for employee benefits
Provision for gratuity (Refer note 26 )
 235 
 205 
 - 
 - 
Provision for leave benefits*
 - 
 - 
 718 
 367 
 235 
 205 
 718 
 367 
*The entire amount of the provision of H 718 (March 31, 2021 : H 367) is presented as current, since the company does not have an unconditional right to 
defer settlement for any of these obligations. However based on past experience, the company does not expect all employees to avail the full amount 
of accrued leave or require payment for such leave within the next 12 months. The amount not expected to be settled within next twelve months is  
H 545 (March 31, 2021 : H 282).
13(a) Borrowings	
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Current
Secured from banks
Loan repayable on demand- bank overdraft (refer note (i) below)
 - 
 5,009 
Working capital demand loan (refer note (ii) below)
 - 
 435 
Total borrowings
 - 
 5,444 
Note:
(i)	 As on March 31, 2021, Fixed Deposits backed Overdraft working capital limits (borrowing in INR) carry interest in the 
range of 4.2% p.a. to 6.3% p.a.. The security for the same is in the form of lien on fixed deposits amounting to H 5,170.
(ii)	 Working capital demand loan (borrowing in INR) carry interest at I-MCLR and "spread" per annum. As on March 31, 
2021 MCLR is 7.25% p.a. and spread is 1% p.a. As on March 31, 2021, this was secured by way of hypothecation on the 
entire current assets (excluding Mutual Funds, FD & Bonds), lien on Fixed Deposits amounting to H 1,400 and backed by 
irrevocable and personal guarantee of Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Chairman, Managing Director and CEO.
Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities
Name of shareholder
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Lease 
Liabilities
Current 
borrowings
Lease 
Liabilities
Current 
borrowings
Opening debt
 440 
 5,444 
 2,040 
 2,011 
Non cash adjustments*
 1,841 
 - 
 (1,320)
 - 
Cash flows/ assets acquired
 (239)
 (5,444)
 (280)
 3,433 
Interest expense
 75 
 293 
 103 
 225 
Interest paid
 (75)
 (293)
 (103)
 (225)
Closing debt
 2,042 
 - 
 440 
 5,444 
*includes termination of leases
126
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 146
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
13(b) Trade payables
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Current 
Trade payables# 
 6,602 
 5,010 
Trade payables to related parties (Refer note 25) 
 426 
 925 
Trade payables to other parties (Refer note 34) 
 79 
 202 
 7,107 
 6,137 
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
(i)	 Total Outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises 
 193 
 51 
(ii)	 Total Outstanding dues other than (i) above 
 6,914 
 6,086 
 7,107 
 6,137 
# Refer note 29 for MSMED disclosure.
Trade Payables ageing schedule for the year ended March 31, 2022
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
Dues
Not due
less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)	 Undisputed - MSME
 * 
 60 
 110 
 5 
 * 
 * 
 175 
(ii)	 Undisputed - Others
 5,552 
 372 
 674 
 39 
 61 
 133 
 6,831 
(iii)	Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 10 
 2 
 5 
 1 
 * 
 18 
(iv)	Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 5 
 9 
 36 
 33 
 83 
Total
 5,552 
 442 
 791 
 58 
 98 
 166 
 7,107 
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
Dues
Not due
less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i) Undisputed - MSME
 - 
 9 
 * 
 11 
 1 
 1 
 22 
(ii) Undisputed - Others
 3,816 
 472 
 1,315 
 200 
 124 
 36 
 5,963 
(iii) Disputed dues – MSME
 - 
 - 
 * 
 27 
 2 
 * 
 29 
(iv) Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 13 
 63 
 24 
 23 
 123 
Total
 3,816 
 481 
 1,328 
 301 
 151 
 60 
 6,137 
Trade Payables ageing schedule for the year ended March 31, 2021
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the company
127
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 147
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Current
Payable to merchants* 
 3,523 
 308 
Payable on purchase of fixed assets
 412 
 218 
Payable on purchase of fixed assets- related parties (Refer note 25)
 12 
 3 
Employee benefits payable
 1,104 
 1,262 
Other amount received from customers
 1,697 
 2,064 
Other amount received from customers- related parties (Refer note 25)
 1 
 1 
Others
 435 
 223 
Others- related parties (Refer note 25)
 124 
 82 
 7,308 
 4,161 
13(c) Other financial liabilities 
*The Company uses a Nodal Account to receive money through debit/credit card and net banking transactions towards all transactions happening on 
its portal, as well as to settle the respective merchants. The amounts collected but yet to be transferred to merchants are netted off with nodal account 
having balance of H 9,942 (March 31, 2021 : H 8,455). Gross payable to merchant includes payable to related parties (Refer note 25) H 1,591 (March 31, 
2021 : H 730) and to other parties (Refer note 34) H Nil (March 31, 2021 : H 58).
Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities:
(i)	 Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and generally carry credit period of 30 days.
Note: All financial liabilities are carried at amortized cost
14 (a) Other current liabilities
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Other payable - related parties (Refer note 25)
 30 
 81 
Statutory dues payable:
	
Tax deducted at source payable
 1,014 
 499 
	
GST Payable
 2,620 
 1,810 
	
Tax collected at source payable
 98 
 68 
	
Provident fund payable
 51 
 30 
	
Other statutory dues	
 52 
 51 
 3,865 
 2,539 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Year ended 
March 31, 2021 
Contract liabilities recognized as revenue during the year
 1,053 
 1,117 
 1,053 
 1,117 
14 (b) Contract liabilities
Particulars
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Contract liabilities
 3,165 
 4,119 
 2,001 
 1,539 
 3,165 
 4,119 
 2,001 
 1,539 
(i)	 For related party and other party balances, Refer note 25 and 34, respectively.
Revenue recognized in relation to carried forward contract liabilities
128
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 148
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
15. Revenue from operations
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Year ended 
March 31, 2021 
Revenue from contracts with customers
Sale of services 
 38,807 
 26,671 
Other operating revenue
Incentive income# 
 117 
 - 
 38,924 
 26,671 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Year ended 
March 31, 2021 
Interest income
-	
on bank deposits 
 2,170 
 1,619 
-	
Interest on Income tax refund 
 - 
 248 
-	
Interest on Inter corporate loans - measured at amortized cost 
 63 
 11 
-	
Interest Income on unwinding of discount - financial assets measured at 
amortized cost 
 182 
 212 
-	
Interest Income on debentures -measured at amortized cost 
 70 
 459 
-	
Interest income on security deposit 
 85 
 87 
Fair value gain on financial instruments measured at FVTPL (net)
 223 
 891 
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (net)
 7 
 18 
Liabilities no longer required written back
 7 
 - 
Exchange differences (net)
 - 
 19 
Miscellanous Income
 23 
 185 
 2,830 
 3,749 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Year ended 
March 31, 2021 
(i)	 Nature of services  
	
Payment and financial services 
 29,297 
 21,002 
	
Commerce and cloud services 
 9,510 
 5,669 
 38,807 
 26,671 
(ii)	Timing of revenue recognition 
	
Services provided at a point in time 
 36,567 
 25,716 
	
Services provided over a period of time 
 2,240 
 955 
 38,807 
 26,671 
#There are no unfulfilled conditions or other contingencies attached to these grants. 
Disaggregated details of revenue:
16. Other income
129
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 149
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Year ended 
March 31, 2021 
Salaries, bonus and incentives
 10,575 
 7,238 
Contribution to provident and other funds
 240 
 148 
Share based payment expenses (Refer note 24)
 7,498 
 867 
Leave Encashment Expense
 476 
 (58)
Gratuity expenses (Refer note 26)
 124 
 95 
Staff welfare expenses
 159 
 49 
 19,072 
 8,339 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Year ended 
March 31, 2021 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (Refer note 3(a))
 2,041 
 1,357 
Depreciation on right-of-use-assets# (Refer note 3(b))
 194 
 160 
Amortization of intangible assets (Refer note 4)
 47 
 51 
 2,282 
 1,568 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Year ended 
March 31, 2021 
Interest
-	
Interest and finance charges on lease liabilities (Refer note 3(b))
 75 
 103 
-	
on borrowings at amortised cost
 293 
 225 
-	
Interest on late deposit of statutory dues
 * 
 * 
-	
on others
 13 
 9 
 381 
 337 
17. Employee benefits expense
18. Depreciation and amortization expense
19. Finance costs
#This amount is net of cross charge of H 7 (March 31, 2021 : H 24) (Refer note 3(b))
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
130
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 150
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Year ended 
March 31, 2021 
Connectivity and content fees
 2,126 
 1,682 
Legal and professional fees
 1,656 
 1,984 
Subcontract expenses
 3,856 
 1,725 
Contest, ticketing and FASTag expenses
 364 
 620 
Logistic, deployment & collection cost
 656 
 362 
Provision for advances
 40 
 4 
Loss allowance for financial assets
 697 
 471 
Trade receivables / advance written off
 201 
 60 
Repair and maintenance
 325 
 222 
Insurance
 83 
 61 
Rates and taxes
 103 
 51 
Travelling and conveyance
 88 
 38 
Bank charges
 19 
 27 
Communication costs
 19 
 21 
Payment to auditors (Refer details below)
 32 
 11 
Rent(Refer note 28)
 42 
 9 
Goods and services tax expense off
 17 
 11 
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets written off 
 10 
 3 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure (Refer note 37)
 14 
 4 
Exchange differences (net)
 6 
 - 
Miscellaneous expenses
 194 
 212 
 10,548 
 7,578 
(i)	 Payment to Auditors 
	
As auditors
	
-	
Audit fee
 8 
 7 
	
-	
Tax audit fee
 * 
 * 
	
-	
Limited Review
 3 
 3 
	
In other capacity
	
-	
Other Services (IPO related)
 40 
 - 
	
-	
Reimbursement of expenses
 2 
 * 
	
-	
Other Services (Certification fees)
 2 
 1 
	
Other adjustments**
 (23)
 - 
 32 
 11 
20. Other expenses
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
**Other adjustment include amount of H 23 recoverable from selling shareholders pursuant to agreement with selling shareholders for sharing of IPO 
expenses.
(ii) Legal and professional fees includes
	
a)	
an amount of H 59 (March 31, 2021 : H Nil) as remuneration to non-executive and independent directors.
	
b)	 an amount of H 49 (March 31, 2021 : H 68) as payment to a Law firm in which one of the non-executive and 
independent director is interested. Further, payment of H 1 (March 31, 2021: H Nil) to the said firm which is in the 
nature of share issue expenses has been adjusted with securities premium account.
131
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 151
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
21. Exceptional items
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Year ended 
March 31, 2021 
Loss attributable to equity holders for basic and diluted earnings
 (23,251)
 (15,601)
Weighted average number of equity shares for basic and diluted EPS#
 621,763,714 
 601, 971,990 
Earnings per share (J per share of J 1 each)
Basic
 (37)
 (26)
Diluted*
 (37)
 (26)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Year ended 
March 31, 2021 
Provision for impairment of investments in associates and subsidiaries
 (441)
 (650)
 (441)
 (650)
a)	
The Company basis its assessment of future business projections of its subsidiaries i.e. Orbgen Technologies Private 
Limited and Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited has recognized provision for impairment in the carrying value of 
its investments of H 132 and H 200 (March 31, 2021 : H 350 and H Nil), respectively, which has been shown as exceptional 
item in the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2022. During current and previous 
year, the impairment loss for Orbgen Technologies Private Limited and Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited was 
based on the equity value calculated based on cash flow projections with the business plan used for impairment testing 
using discounted cash flow method. The management has computed equity value of Orbgen Technologies Private 
Limited and Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited based on discount rate of 22.5% and terminal growth rate used in 
extrapolating cash flows beyond the planning period of 2.45 times of revenue of the terminal year.
b)	 The Company basis its assessment of future business projections of its associate, Eatgood Technologies Private Limited, 
has recognized provision of H 30 (March 31, 2021: 300) for impairment in the carrying value of its investment. During 
current and previous year, the management has computed equity value of Eatgood Technologies Private Limited based 
on discount rate of 17.24% and terminal growth rate used in extrapolating cash flows is 3.8%.
c)	
The Company has subscribed to optionally convertible debentures of Nearbuy India Private Limited (subsidiary of Little 
Internet Private Limited). The Company has the rights of conversion into a fixed number of equity shares. The investment 
has been fair valued through profit and loss (FVTPL) since it does not meet the SPPI test. The difference in fair value of  
H 79 has been taken as deemed investment in Little Internet Private Limited. The Company basis its assessment of future 
business projections has recognized an impairment of H 79 (March 31, 2021: Nil) during the year.
22. Earnings per shares (EPS)
Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit/ (loss) for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company by 
the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit/ (loss) attributable to equity holders of the Company by the 
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of equity shares 
that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential equity shares into equity shares.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted EPS computations:
* In view of losses during the current year and previous year, the options which are anti-dilutive have been ignored in the calculation of diluted earnings 
per share. Accordingly, there is no variation between basic and diluted earnings per share.
# Pursuant to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on June 30, 2021, each equity share of face value 
of H 10 per share was sub-divided into ten equity shares of face value of H 1 per share, with effect from record date, i.e., June 30, 2021. Consequently, 
the basic and diluted earnings per share have been computed for current year and previous year on the basis of the new number of equity shares in 
accordance with Ind AS 33, Earning per share.
132
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 152
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
23. Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
The preparation of the Company’s Standalone Financial Statements requires management to make judgements, estimates 
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the accompanying 
disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in 
outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
Estimates and assumptions
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have 
a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next 12 months, 
are described below.
Deferred taxes
Deferred tax assets can be recognised for deductible temporary differences (including unused tax losses) only to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised. As 
the Company is yet to generate operating profits, Management has assessed that as at March 31, 2022 it is not probable 
that such deferred tax assets can be realised in excess of available taxable temporary differences. Management re-assesses 
unrecognised deferred tax assets at each reporting date and recognises to the extent that it has become probable that 
future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. For details about deferred tax assets, refer note 27.
During FY 2019-20 (AY 2020-21) a shareholder of the Company holding 30.33% of shares of the Company has transferred its 
shareholding to its group company (both entities being 100% subsidiaries of the same ultimate parent entity). Based on advice 
from the Company's tax experts, Management has assessed that a mere change in shareholding within the same group will not 
be an affirmative position to say that the shareholding has been changed. Further, since the shares of the Company carrying not 
less than fifty-one percent of the voting power were beneficially held by persons, i.e. ultimate holding company of the aforesaid 
entities, who beneficially held shares of the company carrying not less than fifty-one percent of the voting power on the last day 
of the year or years in which the loss was incurred, the Company shall be entitled to carry forward and set off these losses against 
the taxable income of future years in accordance with the provisions of Section 79 of the Income Tax Act, 1961. (refer note 27)
Defined benefit plans (gratuity benefits) 
The cost of the defined benefit gratuity plan and the present value of the gratuity obligation are determined using actuarial 
valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions that may differ from actual developments in the 
future. These include the determination of the discount rate, future salary increases and mortality rates. Due to the 
complexities involved in the valuation and its long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in 
these assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date.
In determining the appropriate discount rate for plans operated in India, the management considers the interest rates of 
government bonds in India. The mortality rate is based on publicly available mortality tables for India. The mortality tables 
tend to change only at interval in response to demographic changes. Future salary increases and gratuity increases are 
based on expected future inflation rates. For further details about gratuity obligations, refer note 26.
Fair value measurement of financial instruments
When the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the standalone balance sheet cannot be measured 
based on quoted prices in active markets, their fair value is measured using valuation techniques including the DCF model, 
Price of Recent Investment (PORI) method and Comparable Company Multiples (CCM) method. The inputs to these models 
are taken from observable markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required in 
establishing fair values. For further details about Fair value measurement, refer note 30.
Impairment of financial assets	
The Company assesses on a forward looking basis the expected credit risk associated with its assets carried at amortised 
cost. The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk. Note 31 
details how the Company determines whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.
Impairment reviews
Investments in subsidiaries and associates are tested for impairment at-least on an annual basis or when events that occur 
/ changes in circumstances indicate that the recoverable amount is less than its carrying value. In calculating the value in 
133
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 153
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
23. Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions (Contd..)
use, the Company is required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions inter-alia concerning the growth in EBITDA, 
long-term growth rates; discount rates to reflect the risks involved. For details about impairment reviews, refer note 21.
Incentives
The Company provides incentives to users in various forms including cash backs to promote our platform. Incentives to users 
to whom the Company has a performance obligation is recorded as a reduction of revenue to the extent of the revenue earned. 
For the incentives to other transacting users to whom the Company has no performance obligation, management is required to 
determine whether the incentives are in substance a payment on behalf of the merchants and should therefore be recorded as a 
reduction of revenue or as marketing and promotional expenses. Some of the factors considered in management’s evaluation of 
such incentives being payments on behalf of  merchants include whether the incentives are given at the Company’s discretion, 
contractual agreements with the merchants, business strategy and objectives and design of the incentive program(s), etc
24. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP)
(A)	One97 Employees Stock Option Scheme 2019 (ESOP 2019 Scheme)
	
The Company introduced One97 Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019 for the benefit of employees as approved by 
the Board of Directors in the meeting held on 04th September 2019 and by shareholders in the Annual General Meeting 
held on 30th September 2019 wherein the Nomination and Remuneration Committee has been authorized to grant 
share-based stock options to eligible employees of the Company, its subsidiaries and associates under the ESOP 2019 
Scheme. The maximum number of Employee Stock Options under ESOP 2019 Scheme shall not exceed 46,455,832* 
(Refer Note 1 & 2 below) equity shares. These Stock Options will generally vest between a minimum of one to a maximum 
of five years from the grant date subject to achievement of certain performance criteria.
 
Significant changes/modifications in the ESOP 2019 Scheme during FY 2020-21 & FY 2021-22
	
1)	
Pursuant to the approval of Shareholders of the Company at the Annual General Meeting held on June 30, 2021, 
each equity share of the Company having face value of H 10 each was sub divided into ten equity shares of face 
value of H 1 per share with effect from June 30, 2021. Accordingly, all outstanding Employee Stock Options and 
remaining Employee Stock Option Pool have also been sub divided in the similar proportion.
	
2)	 Shareholders of the Company in the Extra Ordinary General Meeting held on September 2, 2021 has approved 
increase in ESOP Pool by adding 37,000,000 options. Accordingly, total ESOP Pool for ESOP 2019 Scheme stands at 
46,455,832. 
	
3)	 During the year ended March 31, 2021, the Company had amended vesting percentage of ESOPs over 5 years of 
vesting schedule vide a resolution passed by the members of the Company in an Extra-Ordinary General Meeting 
dated March 26, 2021. All other terms and conditions remains the same as the original ESOP 2019 Scheme.
Year of Vesting
Old Vesting 
Schedule
Revised Vesting 
Schedule 
Year 1
10%
10%
Year 2
15%
20%
Year 3
20%
20%
Year 4
25%
25%
Year 5
30%
25%
Total
100%
100%
	
	
*After considering impact of share sub division
(B)	One97 Employees Stock Option Scheme 2008 (ESOP 2008 Scheme)
	
The Company introduced One 97 Employee Stock Option 2008 Scheme for the benefit of employees as approved by the 
Board of Directors in the meeting held on September 8, 2008 and by the members in the Extra Ordinary General Meeting 
held on October 22, 2008 wherein Nomination and Remuneration Committee has authorized to grant share-based stock 
options to eligible employees of the Company and its subsidiaries under the ESOP 2008 Scheme. The maximum number 
of Employee Stock Options under ESOP 2008 Scheme shall not exceed 14,638,448* equity shares. These instruments 
will generally vest between a minimum of one to a maximum of four years from the grant date.
134
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 154
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
24. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
(C)	Details about employee stock options granted, outstanding and other information:
	
1)	
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Company has granted 27,428,285 (March 31, 2021- 3,868,310) Employee 
Stock Options under ESOP 2019 Scheme to Eligible Employees.
	
	
The above grant includes grant of 21,000,000 Employee Stock Options to Managing Director and CEO of the 
Company which is subject to achievement of certain milestones and will vest equally in 4 tranches, having minimum 
vesting period of 24 months, 36 months, 48 months and 60 months for each tranche respectively.
	
2)	 The total options outstanding as at March 31, 2022 under ESOP 2008 Scheme are 585,450 and ESOP 2019 Scheme 
are 29,317,167 (March 31, 2021 under ESOP 2008 Scheme – 5,362,100 and ESOP 2019 Scheme – 4,669,180). Scheme-
wise options outstanding are as under:
 
 
ESOP 2008 Scheme
Grant Date
Number of Options 
outstanding*
Number of Options 
outstanding*
Exercise Price*
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
December 31, 2008
-
102,970
1
December 31, 2008
6,425
25,900
5
September 3, 2010
-
2,500
18
December 29, 2012
-
1,272,940
18
April 1, 2014
-
24,670
9
April 1, 2015
-
49,010
9
October 1, 2015
-
64,680
9
April 1, 2016
31,331
561,790
9
October 1, 2016
1,453
537,550
9
April 1, 2017
3,084
995,340
9
October 1, 2017
21,260
166,680
9
April 1, 2018
363,677
1,087,240
9
July 1, 2018
136,530
409,580
9
October 1, 2018
12,387
33,350
9
January 1, 2019
-
-
9
April 1, 2019
9,303
27,900
9
Total
585,450
5,362,100
 
Grant Date
Number of Options 
outstanding*
Number of Options 
outstanding*
Exercise Price*
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
April 1, 2019
268,031
465,420
9
April 1, 2019
-
43,750
9
October 1, 2019
179,728
637,600
9
April 1, 2020
218,797
385,420
9
July 1, 2020
127,428
166,490
9
October 1, 2020
2,194,862
2,970,500
9
April 1, 2021
586,210
-
9
October 1, 2021
4,206,273
 -
9
October 1, 2021
21,000,000
 -
9
October 1, 2021
385,838
 -
1900
October 8, 2021
150,000
 -
9
Total
29,317,167
4,669,180
 
	
	
*After considering impact of share sub division
 
 
ESOP 2019 Scheme
135
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 155
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
 
3) Movement during the year ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021:
	
	
The following table provides details about the number and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of, and 
movements in, employee stock options during the year:
24. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2022*
Year ended March 31, 2021*
No of Options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price
No of Options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price
ESOP 2008 Scheme
 
 
 
 
Outstanding at the beginning
5,362,100 
10.97 
7,292,570 
10.19 
Granted during the year
- 
- 
- 
- 
Exercised during the year
4,343,960 
11.43 
613,860 
8.91 
Forfeited during the year
350,020 
8.99 
1,316,610 
9.00 
Cancelled during the year
82,670 
9.00 
- 
- 
Outstanding at the end of the year
585,450 
8.96 
5,362,100 
10.97 
Vested options outstanding at the end of 
the year (exercisable)
434,923 
8.96
4,514,930 
10.97
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2022
Year ended March 31, 2021
No of Options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price
No of Options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price
ESOP 2019 Scheme
 
 
 
 
Outstanding at the beginning
4,669,180 
9 
1,478,130 
9 
Granted during the year
27,428,285 
35.60 
3,868,310 
9 
Exercised during the year
576,261 
9 
23,380 
9 
Forfeited during the year
2,150,327 
9 
653,880 
9 
Cancelled during the year
53,710 
9 
- 
- 
Outstanding at the end of the year
29,317,167 
33.89 
4,669,180 
9 
Vested options outstanding at the end of 
the year (exercisable)
291,732
9 
240,250
9 
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
ESOP 2019 
Plan
ESOP 2008 
Plan
ESOP 2019 
Plan
ESOP 2008 
Plan
Weighted Avg. share price of options 
exercised on the date of exercise  
(H per share)
1,411.82
1,646.04
1,067.01
1,070.83
	
	
*After considering impact of share sub division
	
	
*After considering impact of share sub division
 
4) Details of Weighted average share price of options exercised on the date of exercise are as follows:
136
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 156
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
24. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
ESOP 2019 
Plan
ESOP 2008 
Plan
ESOP 2019 
Plan
ESOP 2008 
Plan
Weighted Avg. remaining life for the 
options outstanding at the end of the year 
(in years)
3.14
0.16
7.48
3.93
 
5) Details of Weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding are as follows: 
 
6) Expense recognized for employee services received during the year are as below:
Particulars
March 31, 2022 
March 31, 2021 
Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment 
transactions (refer note 17)
7,498
867
Investment (ESOP issued to employees of subsidiary companies) 
     674
265
Total expense arising from share-based payment transactions
8,172
1,132
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Company has cancelled 67,550* outstanding unvested employee 
stock options and 68,830* outstanding vested Employee Stock options. This cancellation of unvested employee 
stock options resulted into an accelerated share based payment expense of H 39 (included in above charge) in the 
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2022.
	
	
Details of stock options granted under the One 97 ESOP 2019 Scheme during the year ended on March 31, 2022 
(computed using Discounted Cash Flow, OPM & Black-Scholes model) are as under:
Particulars
Grant Date
Grant Date
April 
1, 2021*
October 1, 
2021
October 1, 
2021
October 1, 
2021**
October 8, 
2021
October 
8, 2021
Share Price  
(H per share)
1,657 
1,891 
1,891 
1,891 
1,891 
1,891 
Fair Value of Options 
Granted (H per option)
1,651
1,883
1,027
1,884
1,883
1,882
Weighted Avg. Exercise 
Price (H per share)
9
9
1900
9
9
9
Vesting Period (in years)
5
5
5
5
5
1
Dividend Yield (%)
                     - 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Expected Life (in years)
3.50 - 7.50
1.04 - 5.04
3.50 - 7.50
2.88 - 5.04
1.04 - 5.04
1.04
Risk free interest rate (%)
5.30 - 6.40
4.00 - 5.90
5.30 - 6.40
4.90 - 5.90
4.00 - 6.00
4.00 
Annualized Volatility (%)
45.00 - 55.30
40.30 - 51.60
43.20 - 56.30
44.10 - 56.20
40.20 - 51.60
40.20 
	
	
*After considering impact of share sub division
	
	
** Grant of options to Managing Director & CEO
	
	
Details of stock options granted under the One 97 ESOP 2019 Scheme during the year ended on March 31, 2021 
(computed using Discounted Cash Flow & Black-Scholes model) are as under:
137
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 157
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Grant Date
Grant Date
April 1, 2020
July 1, 2020
July 1, 2020 October 1,2020
Share Price (H per share)*
           1,127                   1,067                   1,067                   1,067 
Fair Value of Options Granted  
(H per option)*
1,121
1,059
1,059
1,059
Weighted Avg. Exercise Price  
(H per share)*
9
9
9
9
Vesting Period (in years)
5
5
1
5
Dividend Yield (%)
                     -  
- 
- 
- 
Expected Life (in years)
3.50 - 7.50
3.00 - 5.00
3.00 
3.00 - 5.00
Risk free interest rate (%)
5.60 - 6.80
4.40 - 5.20
4.40 
4.90 - 5.30
Annualized Volatility (%)
37.10 - 53.00
43.20 - 46.80
43.20 
42.40 - 46.90
24. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
	
	
*After considering impact of share sub division
	
	
Notes:
	
	
1.	
Weighted average share price is based on the value of Equity Shares arrived at by using Discounted Cash Flow 
Method, OPM Method or Backsolve method and share prices based on secondary transactions, where available.
	
	
2.	
Dividend yield is considered zero, as no dividend payout is expected in the foreseeable future.
	
	
3.	
Risk free return is based on the yield to maturity of Indian treasury securities, with a maturity corresponding to 
the expected term of ESOP.
	
	
4.	
Annualized volatility is based on the median weekly volatility of selected comparable companies for a time 
period commensurate with the expected term.
25. Related party transactions
A.	 Entities over which company exercise control
Name
Country of 
incorporation
Ownership interest held
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Indian Subsidiaries
One 97 Communications India Limited 
India
100.00%
100.00%
Paytm Financial Services Limited (till February 22, 2021)*
India
 - 
 - 
Paytm Entertainment Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
Paytm Money Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited###
India
66.34%
65.71%
Urja Money Private Limited##
India
83.34%
67.47%
Little Internet Private Limited
India
62.53%
62.53%
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited (Formerly known as 
QoRQL Private Limited) (till June 17, 2020)*
India
 - 
 - 
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
Paytm Services Private Limited (Formerly known as 
Balance Technology Private Limited)
India
100.00%
100.00%
Paytm Payments Services Limited (w.e.f October 10, 
2020)
India
100.00%
100.00%
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
138
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 158
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
25. Related party transactions (ESOP) (Contd..)
Name
Country of 
incorporation
Ownership interest held
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Foreign Subsidiaries
One97 Communications Nigeria Limited
Nigeria
100.00%
100.00%
One97 Communications FZ-LLC
Dubai
100.00%
100.00%
One97 Communications Singapore Private Limited#
Singapore
100.00%
100.00%
One97 USA Inc.
USA
100.00%
100.00%
Subsidiaries of Subsidiaries
One97 Communications Rwanda Private Limited
Rwanda
100.00%
100.00%
One97 Communications Tanzania Private Limited
Tanzania
100.00%
100.00%
One97 Communications Bangladesh Private Limited
Bangladesh
70.00%
70.00%
One97 Uganda Limited
Uganda
100.00%
100.00%
One97 Ivory Coast SA
Ivory Coast
100.00%
100.00%
One97 Benin SA
Benin
100.00%
100.00%
Paytm Labs Inc.
Canada
100.00%
100.00%
One97 Communications Malaysia Sdn. Bdn
Malaysia
100.00%
100.00%
Nearbuy India Private Limited
India
62.53%
62.53%
Xceed IT Solution Private Limited
India
66.34%
65.71%
One Nine Seven Communication Nepal Private Limited
Nepal
100.00%
100.00%
One Nine Seven Digital Solutions Ltd
Kenya
100.00%
100.00%
Fincollect Services Private Limited
India
83.34%
67.47%
One Nine Seven Communications Saudi Arabia For 
Communication and Information Technology (w.e.f. 
December 25, 2019)
Saudi
100.00%
100.00%
Trust (till June 30, 2021)
Paytm Associate Benefit Welfare Trust (formerly known as 
One97 Employee Welfare Trust)**
India
 - 
 - 
Name
Country of 
incorporation
Ownership interest held
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Paytm First Games Private Limited*
India
55.00%
55.00%
Paytm First Games Singapore Pte. Ltd. (wholly owned 
subsidiary of Paytm First Games Private Limited)
Singapore
55.00%
55.00%
Paytm Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd. (w.e.f. October 13, 
2020) (wholly owned subsidiary of Paytm First Games 
Private Limited)
China
55.00%
55.00%
	
*The Company lost its control over the entity on dilution of interest, however, the Company still exercises significant influence over the same.
	
** Consolidated in these standalone financial statements of the Company till June 30, 2021.
	
# including 43.75% (March 31, 2021: 43.75%) held through One 97 Communications India Limited.
	
## including 15.87% (March 31, 2021: Nil) held through Admirable Software Limited.
	
### including 0.63% (March 31, 2021: Nil) held through Admirable Software Limited
B.	  Joint Venture of Paytm Entertainment Limited (Wholly owned Subsidiary of One 97 Communications 
Limited)
	
* The entity is into business of online gaming. It is a strategic investment which utilises group's knowledge and expertise in online space.
139
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 159
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
25. Related party transactions (ESOP) (Contd..)
C.	 Entities over which company exercise significant influence
Particulars
Country of 
incorporation
Ownership interest held
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Paytm Payments Bank Limited#
India
49.00%
49.00%
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited (Formerly known as 
QoRQL Private Limited) (w.e.f June 18, 2020)*
India
32.45%
48.98%
Foster Payment Networks Private Limited  
(w.e.f March 26, 2021)**
India
48.80%
48.80%
Paytm General Insurance Limited
India
49.00%
49.00%
Paytm Life Insurance Limited
India
49.00%
49.00%
Paytm Financials Services Limited  
(w.e.f February 23, 2021)*
India
48.78%
48.78%
Admirable Software Limited (w.e.f. August 17, 2021) **
India
48.78%
 - 
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited 
India
26.57%
26.57%
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited 
India
23.24%
22.20%
Socomo Technologies Private Limited
India
12.75%
11.32%
Loginext Solutions Private Limited (till January 1, 2021)***
India
 - 
 - 
	
# including 10% (March 31, 2021: 10%) held through One 97 Communications India Limited. As per Banking Regulation Act, 1949, voting rights in a 
banking Company are capped at 26% in case the investor holds more than 26% in the bank.
	
*The Company lost its control over the entity on dilution of interest, however, the Company still exercises significant influence over the same.
	
** Subsidiary of Paytm Financials Services Limited.	
	
*** During the previous year, the Company ceased to have significant influence over the entity.
D.	 Key Management Personnel
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma
Chairman, Managing Director and CEO
Mr. Madhur Deora
Group Chief Financial Officer (w.e.f October 9, 2020 and 
till December 31, 2021) and Chief Financial Officer (w.e.f 
January 1, 2022)
Mr. Vikas Garg
Chief Financial Officer (till December 31, 2021)
E.	 Entities having significant influence over the Company
	
SAIF III Mauritius Company Limited
	
Elevation Capital V Limited (Formerly known as SAIF Partners India V Limited)
	
SAIF Partners India IV Limited
	
Elevation Capital V FII Holdings Limited (Formerly known as SAIF India V FII Holdings Limited)
	
ANTFIN (Netherlands) Holding B.V.
	
Alipay Labs (Singapore) Pte Limited
	
SVF India Holdings (Cayman) Limited
	
SVF Panther (Cayman) Limited
	
Alibaba.com Singapore E-Commerce Private Limited (till November 17, 2021)
F.	 Relative of Key Management Personnel
	
Mr. Ajay Shekhar Sharma	
Brother of Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma
140
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 160
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
25. Related party transactions (ESOP) (Contd..)
Details of transactions with related parties during the year ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 
2021:-
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Rendering of services to related parties
One97 Communications FZ-LLC
 64 
 7 
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 3 
 8 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 6,379 
 8,628 
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 1,716 
 - 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 4 
 8 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 46 
 74 
Little Internet Private Limited
 * 
 * 
Urja Money Private Limited
 1 
 * 
Paytm Entertainment Limited
 21 
 - 
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 10 
 3 
Paytm Services Private Limited
 1 
 18 
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
 2 
 2 
One97 Communications Tanzania Private Limited
 37 
 1 
Paytm Money Limited
 95 
 25 
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 233 
 203 
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited
 3 
 4 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
One97 Communications Malaysia Sdn. Bdn
 60 
 225 
One97 Communications Singapore Private Limited
 1 
 1 
One97 Communications Bangladesh Private Limited
 - 
 * 
One Nine Seven Communication Nepal Private Limited
 22 
 27 
 8,698 
 9,235 
Reimbursement of expenses incurred on behalf of related parties
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 751 
 617 
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 1 
 1 
Paytm Money Limited
 33 
 28 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 8 
 7 
Urja Money Private Limited
 * 
 * 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 6 
 5 
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 5 
 5 
Paytm Entertainment Limited
 * 
 * 
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 156 
 238 
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 * 
 * 
Paytm Labs Inc.
 17 
 22 
Paytm Services Private Limited
 3 
 3 
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 753 
 2 
One97 Communications Singapore Private Limited
 24 
 24 
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
 7 
 5 
 1,764 
 956 
141
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 161
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Expenses reimbursed to related party
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 2 
 87 
Paytm Services Private Limited
 * 
 - 
Urja Money Private Limited
 2 
 - 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 1 
 - 
Fincollect Services Private Limited
 2 
 - 
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
 3 
 - 
Paytm Money Limited
 18 
 20 
 28 
 107 
Interest income earned from related parties
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 2 
 14 
Urja Money Private Limited
 3 
 * 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 21 
 1 
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 74 
 - 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 * 
 - 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 10 
 - 
Little Internet Private Limited
 1 
 8 
 111 
 24 
Other income earned from related parties
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 - 
 122 
 - 
 122 
Interest income earned on Optionally Convertible Debentures ("OCD")  
from related parties
Urja Money Private Limited
 2 
 - 
Admirable Software Limited
 11 
 - 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 7 
 - 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 2 
 - 
 22 
 - 
Sale of Business (Refer note 38)
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 2,838 
 - 
 2,838 
 - 
Purchase of property, plant & equipment from related parties
Paytm Money Limited
 4 
 - 
Alibaba.com Singapore E-Commerce Private Limited
 124 
 - 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 * 
 - 
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
 12 
 - 
 140 
 - 
Sale of property, plant & equipment to related parties
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 - 
Urja Money Private Limited
 1 
 - 
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
 * 
 - 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 * 
 1 
 1 
 1 
25. Related party transactions (ESOP) (Contd..)
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
142
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 162
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Services received from related parties
-	
Payment processing charges
	
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 9,709 
 9,468 
	
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 2,751 
 - 
 12,460 
 9,468 
-	
Legal and professional fees
	
Paytm Labs Inc.
 765 
 1,395 
 765 
 1,395 
-	
General expenses
	
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 198 
 374 
	
Alipay Labs (Singapore) Pte Limited (Refer note (i) below)
 1,459 
 1,057 
	
One97 Communications Bangladesh Private Limited
 * 
 - 
	
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited (Refer note (ii) below)
 101 
 63 
	
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 259 
 143 
	
Urja Money Private Limited
 24 
 5 
	
Paytm Entertainment Limited
 2 
 2 
	
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 3 
 - 
	
Paytm Money Limited (Refer note (iv) below)
 47 
 9 
	
Fincollect Services Private Limited
 36 
 15 
	
Paytm Services Private Limited
 2,903 
 1,170 
	
Little Internet Private Limited
 2 
 1 
	
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 5 
 11 
	
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited (Refer note (iii) below)
 49 
 6 
	
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 9 
 20 
	
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited
 16 
 2 
	
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 21 
 - 
	
One 97 Communications India Limited
 * 
 - 
 5,134 
 2,878 
(i)	 includes H 1,451 (March 31, 2021: H 1,057) pertaining to Software, cloud and data centre expenses.
(ii)	 includes H 76 (March 31, 2021:H 47 ) pertaining to Software, cloud and data centre expenses.
(iii)	includes H 26 (March 31, 2021: H * ) pertaining to Software, cloud and data centre expenses.
(iv)	includes H 3 (March 31, 2021: H Nil ) pertaining to Software, cloud and data centre expenses.
Inter corporate loan given
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 1,613 
 - 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 284 
 - 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 20 
 - 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 - 
 450 
Urja Money Private Limited
 15 
 10 
 1,932 
 460 
Repayment of Inter Corporate Loan
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 20 
 - 
 20 
 - 
25. Related party transactions (ESOP) (Contd..)
143
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 163
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Investment in Optionally Convertible Debentures
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 30 
 - 
Urja Money Private Limited
 30 
 - 
Admirable Software Limited
 231 
 - 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 130 
 - 
 421 
 - 
Investment in subsidiaries
Paytm Entertainment Limited
 296 
 821 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 - 
 219 
Paytm Money Limited
 - 
 1,000 
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 - 
 93 
Paytm Services Private Limited
 - 
 30 
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 617 
 500 
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
 - 
 700 
 913 
 3,363 
Stock Options granted to employees of Group Companies
Paytm Entertainment Limited
 78 
 20 
One97 Communications Singapore Private Limited
 320 
 91 
Paytm Money Limited
 60 
 (19)
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 7 
 - 
Urja Money Private Limited
 7 
 - 
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 58 
 - 
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 41 
 84 
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
 (2)
 21 
Paytm Services Private Limited
 2 
 3 
One 97 Communications India Limited
 * 
 * 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 104 
 66 
 674 
 265 
Investment in associates
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 - 
 5 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 - 
 82 
 - 
 87 
25. Related party transactions (ESOP) (Contd..)
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
Details of balances outstanding with related parties as at March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021:-
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Other financial assets (Other receivable for expenditure incurred)
One97 Benin SA
 5 
 5 
One97 Communications FZ-LLC
 * 
 1 
One97 Communications Nigeria Limited
 13 
 12 
One97 Communications Tanzania Private Limited
 26 
 - 
One97 Ivory Coast SA
 2 
 2 
One97 Communications Bangladesh Private Limited
 21 
 20 
Paytm Money Limited
 27 
 34 
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 223 
 146 
144
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 164
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
Alibaba.com Singapore E-Commerce Private Limited
 - 
 1 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 138 
 18 
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 264 
 - 
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited
 * 
 - 
One 97 Communications India Limited
 - 
 * 
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
 3 
 9 
One Nine Seven Communication Nepal Private Limited
 6 
 5 
One97 Communications Malaysia Sdn. Bdn
 - 
 7 
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 3 
 5 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 - 
 * 
Urja Money Private Limited
 * 
 * 
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 12 
 * 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 1 
 3 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 5 
 3 
Paytm Services Private Limited
 51 
 3 
Paytm Entertainment Limited
 * 
 * 
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited
 * 
 * 
 800 
 277 
Loss allowance for other receivable for expenditure incurred
One97 Communications Nigeria Limited
 10 
 10 
One97 Communications Bangladesh Private Limited
 20 
 20 
One97 Ivory Coast SA
 2 
 2 
One97 Benin SA
 5 
 5 
 37 
 37 
Amount receivable for sale of business (Other financial assets)
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 - 
 139 
Paytm Payments Services Limited (Including accrued interest. Refer Note 7(d))
 2,346 
 - 
 2,346 
 139 
Other current assets
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 1,206 
 2,785 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 63 
 83 
Paytm Services Private Limited
 106 
 203 
Little Internet Private Limited
 2 
 2 
Fincollect Services Private Limited
 - 
 19 
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 - 
 9 
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 19 
 - 
One 97 Communications India Limited
 * 
 - 
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 31 
 17 
Paytm Money Limited
 1 
 1 
 1,429 
 3,119 
Inter corporate loan receivable (including accrued interest)
Little Internet Private Limited
 80 
 80 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 471 
 451 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 293 
 - 
Paytm First Games Private Limited#
 1,679 
 - 
Urja Money Private Limited
 26 
 10 
 2,549 
 541 
25. Related party transactions (ESOP) (Contd..)
145
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 165
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Allowance on Inter Corporate Loans
Little Internet Private Limited
 80 
 - 
Investments Optionally Convertible Debentures (including accrued 
interest)
Admirable Software Limited
 241 
 - 
Nearbuy India Private Limited**
 137 
 - 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 32 
 - 
Urja Money Private Limited
 32 
 - 
 442 
 - 
Amount receivable from payment gateway
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 15,334 
 8,546 
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 2,008 
 - 
 17,342 
 8,546 
Trade receivables
One97 Communications Nigeria Limited
 174 
 169 
One97 Benin SA
 * 
 * 
One97 Communications Bangladesh Private Limited
 1 
 1 
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
Paytm Money Limited
 25 
 12 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 1,201 
 188 
Paytm Payments Services Limited
 671 
 2 
Little Internet Private Limited
 * 
 - 
Urja Money Private Limited
 1 
 - 
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 5 
 2 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 5 
 63 
Paytm Services Private Limited
 * 
 * 
Fincollect Services Private Limited
 * 
 * 
One Nine Seven Communication Nepal Private Limited
 79 
 61 
One97 Communications Malaysia Sdn. Bdn
 115 
 329 
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 147 
 171 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 14 
 48 
Paytm Entertainment Limited
 * 
 - 
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
 1 
 * 
One97 Communications FZ-LLC
 59 
 5 
One97 Communications Tanzania Private Limited
 6 
 1 
One97 Communications Singapore Private Limited
 2 
 25 
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited
 - 
 * 
 2,506 
 1,077 
25. Related party transactions (ESOP) (Contd..)
# Excluding Fair Value impact amounting to H 317 (March 31, 2021: Nil)
** Excluding Fair Value impact amounting to H 79 (March 31, 2021: Nil)
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
146
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 166
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
25. Related party transactions (ESOP) (Contd..)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Loss allowance for Trade receivables
One97 Communications Bangladesh Private Limited
 1 
 1 
One97 Benin SA
 * 
 * 
One97 Communications Nigeria Limited
 174 
 169 
One Nine Seven Communication Nepal
 33 
 - 
One 97 Communication Malaysia Sdn. Bdn.
 3 
 - 
 211 
 170 
Other financial assets
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 32 
 323 
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 - 
 * 
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 - 
 * 
Little Internet Private Limited
 * 
 * 
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited
 - 
 * 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 - 
 2 
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
 - 
 * 
Paytm Services Private Limited
 - 
 * 
One97 Communications Nigeria Limited
 - 
 * 
One97 Benin SA
 - 
 * 
One97 Communications Bangladesh Private Limited
 - 
 * 
 32 
 325 
Trade payables (including accrued expenses) 
Alipay Labs (Singapore) Pte Limited
 77 
 337 
One 97 Communications India Limited
 * 
 - 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 51 
 124 
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 7 
 3 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 76 
 57 
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 3 
 1 
Paytm Services Private Limited
 * 
 244 
Urja Money Private Limited
 4 
 5 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 1 
 - 
Fincollect Services Private Limited
 5 
 10 
Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited
 1 
 * 
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited
 3 
 2 
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 33 
 1 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 1 
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 22 
 * 
Paytm Entertainment Limited
 1 
 2 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 1 
 1 
Little Internet Private Limited
 2 
 2 
Paytm Labs Inc.
 114 
 109 
Paytm Money Limited
 24 
 25 
 426 
 925 
147
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 167
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Other financial liabilities
-	
Payable to merchants
	
Socomo Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
	
Little Internet Private Limited
 * 
 * 
	
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 1,591 
 722 
	
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 * 
 5 
	
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
	
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 * 
 * 
	
Urja Money Private Limited
 - 
 * 
	
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
	
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
	
Paytm Services Private Limited
 * 
 2 
	
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited
 * 
 * 
	
Fincollect Services Private Limited
 - 
 * 
 1,591 
 730 
-	
Payable on purchase of fixed assets
	
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 12 
 3 
	
Paytm Money Limited
 - 
 * 
 12 
 3 
-	
Others
	
Little Internet Private Limited
 * 
 * 
	
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 31 
 83 
	
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 * 
 * 
	
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 92 
 - 
	
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 - 
	
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 - 
	
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
 1 
 * 
	
Urja Money Private Limited
 - 
 * 
	
Socomo Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
	
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 1 
 * 
 125 
 83 
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Contract Liabilities
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited
 1 
 * 
Little Internet Private Limited
 * 
 - 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
Nearbuy India Private Limited
 * 
 - 
Paytm Services Private Limited
 26 
 3 
 27 
 3 
Other Current Liabilities
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 30 
 81 
 30 
 81 
25. Related party transactions (ESOP) (Contd..)
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
148
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 168
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Salaries, bonus and incentives
 103 
 72 
ESOP Expenses
 5,670 
 112 
Total compensation paid 
 5,773 
 184 
25. Related party transactions (ESOP) (Contd..)
Remuneration to KMP & Relative of Key Management Personnel
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties 
 
(i)	 The services provided and received from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s 
length transactions. Outstanding balances at the year end are unsecured and interest free (except for inter corporate 
loan receivable and optionally convertible debentures) and settlement generally occurs in cash. There have been no 
guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables.
(ii)	 The remuneration to the key managerial personnel (‘KMP’) does not include the provisions made for gratuity and leave 
benefits as they are determined on an actuarial basis for the Company as a whole.
(iii)	 The Company has agreed to provide appropriate financial support only if and to the extent required by certain of its 
subsidiaries and joint venture.	
(iv)	 Refer note 20 for details of remuneration to non-excecutive and independent directors and payment to a law firm in 
which one of the non-executive and independent director is interested.
26. Gratuity
The Company provides for gratuity for employees in India as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Employees who are in 
continuous service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The amount of gratuity payable on retirement/termination 
is the employees last drawn basic salary per month computed proportionately for 15 days salary multiplied for the number 
of years of service. The gratuity plan is a funded plan and the Company makes contributions to recognised fund/insurer in 
India. The Company does not fully fund the liability and maintains a target level of funding to be maintained over a period of 
time based on estimations of expected gratuity payments. Disclosures given below are as per actuarial valuation report of 
independent Actuary.
The following tables summarize the components of net benefit expenses recognized in the Standalone Statement of Profit 
and Loss and the funded status and amount recognized in the Standalone Balance Sheet.
Changes in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets as at March 31, 2022:
 Defined benefit 
obligation 
 Fair value of 
plan assets # 
Benefit 
liability (Net)
As at April 01, 2021
 374 
 (169)
 205 
Gratuity cost 
charged to 
Statement of Profit 
or Loss
Current Service cost
 110 
 - 
 - 
Net interest expense/ (income)
 25 
 - 
 - 
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included 
in net interest expense)
 - 
 (11)
 - 
Sub-total included in Statement of Profit or Loss
 135 
 (11)
 124 
Remeasurement 
(gains)/ losses 
in Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Actuarial changes arising from changes in 
demographic assumptions
 - 
 - 
 - 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial 
assumptions
 (8)
 - 
 - 
Experience adjustments
 24 
 2 
 - 
Sub-total included in OCI
 16 
 2 
 18 
149
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 169
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
 Defined benefit 
obligation 
 Fair value of 
plan assets # 
Benefit 
liability (Net)
Net liability acquired on transfer of employees
 20 
 - 
 20 
Benefits paid
 (61)
 49 
 (12)
Contributions by employer
 - 
 (120)
 (120)
As at March 31, 2022
 484 
 (249)
 235 
26. Gratuity (Contd..)
Changes in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets as at March 31, 2021:
 Defined benefit 
obligation 
 Fair value of 
plan assets # 
Benefit 
liability (Net)
As at April 01, 2020
 266 
 (99)
 167 
Gratuity cost 
charged to 
Statement of Profit 
or Loss
Current Service cost
 84 
 - 
 - 
Net interest expense/ (income)
 18 
 - 
 - 
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included 
in net interest expense)
 - 
 (7)
 - 
Sub-total included in Statement of Profit or Loss
 102 
 (7)
 95 
Remeasurement 
(gains)/ losses 
in Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Actuarial changes arising from changes in 
demographic assumptions
 - 
 - 
 - 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial 
assumptions
 6 
 - 
 - 
Experience adjustments
 11 
 (2)
 - 
Sub-total included in OCI
 17 
 (2)
 15 
Net liability acquired on transfer of employees
 17 
 - 
 17 
Benefits paid
 (28)
 29 
 1 
Contributions by employer
 - 
 (90)
 (90)
As at March 31, 2021
 374 
 (169)
 205 
# Fair value of the total plan assets are 100% in funds managed by Insurer.
The net liability disclosed above relates to funded plans are as follows:
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Present value of the obligations at end
 484 
 374 
Fair value of plan assets
 (249)
 (169)
Deficit of funded plan/gratuity plan
 235 
 205 
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
%
%
Discount rate
7.26
6.76
Future salary increases
10%
10%
The principal assumptions used in determining defined benefit obligations are shown below:
(i) Economic Assumptions
150
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 170
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
26. Gratuity (Contd..)
Assumptions
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2022
Discount rate
Future salary increases
0.5% increase
0.5% decrease
0.5% increase
0.5% decrease
Sensitivity Level
Impact on defined benefit obligation
 (8)
8
7
 (7)
Assumptions
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2021
Discount rate
Future salary increases
0.5% increase
0.5% decrease
0.5% increase
0.5% decrease
Sensitivity Level
Impact on defined benefit obligation
 (6)
 7 
 6 
 (6)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period)
 93 
 67 
Between 1-2 years
 96 
 74 
Between 2 and 5 years
 169 
 135 
Beyond 5 years
 125 
 98 
Total expected payments
 484 
 374 
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Retirement Age  (Years)
60
60
Mortality  rates inclusive of provision for disability
100% of IALM  
(2012 - 14)
100% of IALM  
(2012 - 14)
Ages
Withdrawal Rate %
	
Up to 30 Years        
30
30
	
From 31 to 44 years        
30
30
	
Above 44 years       
30
30
(ii) Demographic Assumptions
 
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption as at March 31, 2022 is as shown below:
 
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption as at March 31, 2021 is as shown below:
	
The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined 
benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period. The 
methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensivity analysis did not change compared to the prior year.
	
Expected contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the period ending March 31, 2023 are H 162 (March 31, 
2022 - H 113).
	
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 2.78 years (March 31, 2021- 2.76 years). 
	
The average remaining working life of members of the defined benefit obligation as at March 31, 2022 is 29.91 years (as 
at March 31, 2021- 29.06 years)
 
The expected maturity analysis of gratuity is as follows:
 
Risk exposure
	
Through its defined benefit plans, the Company is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are 
detailed below:
151
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 171
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
	
Asset volatility: The plan assets are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to bond yields. If plan assets 
underperform this yield, there will be a deficit of the plan asset investments in fixed income securities with high grades 
and in government securities. These are subject to interest rate risk and the fund manages interest rate risk to an 
acceptable level.
	
Changes in bond yields: The defined benefit obligation calculated uses a discount rate based on government bonds. If 
bond yields fall, the defined benefit obligation will tend to increase.
	
Inflation risks: The payments are not linked to inflation, so this is a less material risk.  
	
Life expectancy: Obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy and 
inflation will result in an increase in the plans' liabilities. This is particularly significant where inflationary conditions result 
in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
 
Major categories of plans assets are as follows:
26. Gratuity (Contd..)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
 Amount 
 In % 
 Amount 
 In % 
Government securities
 (101)
 40.42 
 (67)
 39.39 
Non convertible debentures/ Corporate bonds
 (119)
 47.10 
 (85)
 50.37 
Others
 (29)
 11.48 
 (17)
 11.24 
Total
 (249)
 100.00 
 (169)
 100.00 
27. Income Tax
The major components of income tax expense for the year ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021 
are:
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss:
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Current income tax:
	
Current income tax charge
 3 
 2 
	
Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous year expense/
(credit)
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax:
	
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
 - 
 - 
	
Income tax expense reported in the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss
 3 
 2 
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Accounting profit before income tax
 (23,248)
 (15,599)
Tax at India’s statutory income tax rate of 25.17% (March 31, 2021: 25.17%)
 (5,851)
 (3,926)
Tax expense during the year for Paytm Associate Benefit Welfare Trust 
(formerly known as One97 Employee Welfare Trust)
 3 
 2 
Other non-deductible expenses
 14 
 225 
Losses on which deferred taxes not recognised*
4,887  
 3,193 
Unabsorbed depreciation on which deferred taxes not recognised*
 406 
 333 
Other temporary differences on which deferred taxes not recognised*
 544 
 175 
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit and loss
3
 2 
Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India’s domestic tax rate for March 31, 2022 and 
March 31, 2021:
* As at the  year ended on March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021, the Company is having deferred tax assets comprising of deductible temporary 
differences, brought forward losses and unabsorbed depreciation under tax laws. However in the absence of reasonable certainty as to its realization 
of Deferred Tax Assets (DTA), DTA has not been created.
152
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 172
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
27. Income Tax (Contd..)
i)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts
 494 
 460 
Income tax related matters
 19 
 16 
Total
 513 
 476 
Particulars
Expiry Date 
(Year ending 
March 31,)
As of  
March 31, 
2022
As of March 31, 
2022 Tax impact 
@ 25.17%
As of  
March 31, 
2021
As of March 31, 
2021 Tax impact 
@ 25.17%
Tax Losses
2023
 3,316 
 835 
 3,316 
 835 
2024
 14,943 
 3,761 
 14,943 
 3,761 
2025
 7,175 
 1,806 
 7,175 
 1,806 
2026
 13,410 
 3,375 
 13,410 
 3,375 
2027
 37,638 
 9,473 
 37,638 
 9,473 
2028
 21,373 
 5,379 
 21,373 
 5,379 
2029
 12,689 
 3,193 
 12,689 
 3,193 
2030
 19,417 
 4,887 
 - 
 - 
Total tax losses
 129,961 
 32,709 
 110,544 
 27,822 
Unabsorbed depreciation
No expiry 
period
 5,741 
 1,445 
 4,131 
 1,040 
Other temporary differences
 11,592 
 2,917 
 9,477 
 2,385 
Total
 147,294 
 37,071 
 124,152 
 31,247 
Deductible temporary differences for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the Standalone Balance Sheet:
28. Commitments and contingencies
a.	 Leases
 
Operating lease: Company as Lessee
	
The Company has taken certain office space on short term operating lease. The leases have varying terms, escalation 
clauses and renewal rights. On renewal, the terms of the leases are renegotiated. Rental expense towards leases charged 
to Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2022 amount to H 42 (March 31, 2021: H 9).
b.	 Lease not yet commenced
	
During the previous year, the Company has entered into a lease agreement for 9 years having lock-in period of 5 years, 
for which lease is not yet commenced as on March 31, 2022. The Company is committed to pay lease rentals of H 293 
over the period of 5 years.
c.	 Capital commitments
	
Estimated amount of contracts towards property, plant & equipment remaining to be executed on capital account and 
not provided for is H 3,057 (Net of capital advance of H 763) [March 31, 2021: H 3,719 (Net of capital advances of H 180)].
d.	 Contingent liabilities
153
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 173
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
	
ii)	
The Company will continue to assess the impact of further developments relating to retrospective application of 
Supreme Court judgement dated February 28, 2019 clarifying the definition of 'basic wages' under Employees' 
Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 1952 and deal with it accordingly. In the assessment of the 
management, the aforesaid matter is not likely to have a significant impact and accordingly, no provision has been 
made in these Standalone Financial Statements.
	
iii)	 The Company has been made aware of certain matters/claims relating to infringement of trademarks and patents 
in relation to the business activities carried on by it. The Company actively monitors such matters/claims along 
with appropriate legal/technology experts to assess their veracity and takes action as considered necessary. In 
the opinion of the management, no material liability is likely to arise on account of such matters/claims, based on 
assessments made to date.
	
	
Notes:
	
	
1)	
It is not practicable for the Company to estimate the timing of cash outflows, if any.
	
	
2)	 The Company does not expect any reimbursements in respect of the above contingent liabilities.
29. Details of dues to Micro and Small Enterprises as per MSMED Act, 2006
28. Commitments and contingencies (Contd..)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any 
supplier as at the end of each accounting year
-	
Principal amount due under MSMED Act
 159 
29
-	
Interest due on above
 2 
1
 161 
30
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16 of the MSMED 
Act 2006 along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond 
the appointed day during each accounting year
 - 
 - 
Interest paid, other than under Section 16 of MSMED Act to suppliers 
registered under MSMED Act, beyond the appointed day during each 
accounting year.
 - 
 - 
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making 
payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the 
year) but without adding the interest specified under the MSMED Act 2006.
 11 
 9 
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each 
accounting year, for payment already made
 32 
 21 
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the earlier 
years, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the 
small enterprise for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure 
under section 23 of the MSMED Act 2006
 - 
 - 
Principal amounts paid to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act, beyond 
the appointed day during the year
 1,219 
 649 
Total Oustanding dues of micro and small enterprises is H 193 ( March 31, 2021: H 51).
154
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 174
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
30. Fair value
Fair value hierarchy
The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Company's assets and liabilities:
Level 1 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
(i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
Level 3 - Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
The following table presents fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of 
March 31, 2022
Particulars
As of  
March 31, 
2022
Fair value measurement at end of the reporting 
year using
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Assets
Investments at fair value through OCI
	
Investment in Equity shares
 23 
 - 
 - 
 23 
Investments at fair value through Profit and loss
	
Investment in Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference Shares
 40 
 - 
 - 
 40 
	
Investment in optionally convertible 
debentures
 363 
 - 
 - 
 363 
	
Inter corporate loans
 1,362 
 - 
 - 
 1,362 
The following table presents fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of 
March 31, 2021
Particulars
As of  
March 31, 
2021
Fair value measurement at end of the reporting 
year using
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Assets
Investments at fair value through OCI
	
Investment in Equity Shares
 27 
 - 
 - 
 27 
Investments at fair value through Profit and loss
	
Investment in Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference Shares
 40 
 - 
 - 
 40 
	
Investment in Equity Shares
 53 
 - 
 - 
 53 
Other financial assets at fair value through Profit 
and loss
	
Other receivable from other parties*
 6,251 
 - 
 - 
 6,251 
*The Company has an option to covert into equity shares of counter party.
The management has assessed that fair value of all other financial assets and liabilities including cash and cash equivalents, 
bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, loans, other financial assets, investments, trade 
payables, lease liabilities, borrowings and other financial liabilities, approximate their carrying amounts.
155
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 175
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
31.	Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Company’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, including market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The 
Company continues to focus on a system-based approach to business risk management. The Company’s financial risk 
management process seeks to enable the early identification, evaluation and effective management of key risks facing 
the business. Backed by strong internal control systems, the current Risk Management Framework rests on policies and 
procedures issued by appropriate authorities; process of regular internal reviews/audits to set appropriate risk limits and 
controls; monitoring of such risks and compliance confirmation for the same.
a.	 Market Risk
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes 
in market prices. Market prices comprise three types of risk: interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and price risk. The 
Company has in place appropriate risk management policies to limit the impact of these risks on its financial performance. 
The Company ensures optimization of cash through fund planning and robust cash management practices.
 
(i) Interest Rate Risk
	
	
Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate 
because of changes in market interest rates.
	
	
The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Company’s borrowings 
with floating interest rates.
	
	
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, being a 0.5% 
increase or decrease in interest rate, with all other variables held constant, of the Company’s loss before tax due to 
the impact on floating rate borrowings.
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Effect on loss before tax:
Decrease by 50 bps
Nil
(27)
Increase by 50 bps
Nil 
27
	
	
Other financial assets and liabilities of the Company are either non-interest bearing or fixed interest bearing 
instruments, the Company’s net exposure to interest risk on such instruments is negligible.
	
	
The above sensitivity analysis is based on a reasonably possible change in the under-lying interest rate of the 
Company’s borrowings while assuming all other variables to be constant. 
	
	
Based on the movements in the interest rates historically and the prevailing market conditions as at the reporting 
date, the Company’s management has concluded that the above mentioned rates used for sensitivity are reasonable 
benchmarks.
 
(ii) Price risk
	
	
The Company invests its surplus funds in various debt instruments, fixed deposits and debt mutual funds. These 
comprise of primarily debt based mutual funds (liquid investments), debentures and fixed deposits. As on March 31, 
2021, all mutual fund investments were in liquid scheme only.
	
	
Mutual fund investments are susceptible to market price risk, mainly arising from changes in the interest rates or 
market yields which may impact the return and value of such investments.
	
	
Set out below is the impact of a 0.25% movement in the NAV of mutual funds and debt instruments on the Company’s 
loss before tax:
156
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 176
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Change in NAV
Effect on loss before tax
March 31, 2022
0.25%
Nil
 
-0.25%
Nil
March 31, 2021
0.25%
(4)
-0.25%
4
Particulars
Change in USD rate
Effect on loss before tax
March 31, 2022
10% strengthening of USD against INR
(47)
 
10% weakening of USD against INR
38
March 31, 2021
10% strengthening of USD against INR
(5)
10% weakening of USD against INR
4
Particulars
Change in CAD rate
Effect on loss before tax
March 31, 2022
10% strengthening of CAD against INR
13
 
10% weakening of CAD against INR
(10)
March 31, 2021
10% strengthening of CAD against INR
17
10% weakening of CAD against INR
(14)
31.	Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd..)
	
	
The Company is also exposed to equity/ preference shares price risk arising from investments held by the Company 
and classified in the balance sheet either as fair value through OCI or at fair value through profit or loss (refer 
note 7(a) and 7(b)). To manage its price risk arising from investments in equity/ preference shares, the company 
diversifies its portfolio. Diversification of the portfolio is done in accordance with the limits set by the company.
 
(iii) Foreign currency risk
	
	
The Indian Rupee is the Company’s most significant currency. As a consequence, the Company’s results are 
presented in Indian Rupee and exposures are managed against Indian Rupee accordingly. Foreign currency risk 
is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of changes in foreign 
exchange rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the 
Company’s operating activities and investing activities (when revenue, expense and Property, Plant and Equipment 
is denominated in a foreign currency).
	
	
The carrying amounts of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities denominated in United States Dollar (USD), 
Canadian Dollar (CAD) and Malaysian Ringgit (MYR) are as follows:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2022
As at March 31, 2021
Financial 
assets
Financial 
liabilities
Financial 
assets
Financial 
liabilities
Amount in USD Millions 
                   7
1
4
3
Amount in CAD Millions 
               - 
2 
                   - 
                      3  
Amount in MYR Millions
3
-
18
-
	
	
The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity of profit or loss to a reasonably possible change in USD exchange 
rates, with all other variables held constant.
	
	
The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity of profit or loss to a reasonably possible change in CAD and 
exchange rates, with all other variables held constant.
157
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 177
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Change in MYR rate
Effect on loss before tax
March 31, 2022
10% strengthening of MYR against INR
(6)
 
10% weakening of MYR against INR
5
March 31, 2021
10% strengthening of MYR against INR
(36)
10% weakening of MYR against INR
29
	
	
The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity of profit or loss to a reasonably possible change in MYR and 
exchange rates, with all other variables held constant.
31.	Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd..)
	
	
The Company’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material.
	
	
The above sensitivity analysis is based on a reasonably possible change in the under-lying foreign currency against 
the functional currency while assuming all other variables to be constant.
	
	
Based on the movements in the foreign exchange rates historically and the prevailing market conditions as at the 
reporting date, the Company’s management has concluded that the above mentioned rates used for sensitivity are 
reasonable benchmarks.
b.	 Credit Risk
	
Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or contract, leading to a 
financial loss. The Company is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) including 
deposits with banks. Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an  
ongoing basis. 
	
All of the entity's investments and loans at amortised cost are considered to have low credit risk, and the loss allowance 
recognised during the period was therefore limited to 12 months expected losses. Management considers instruments 
to be low credit risk when they have a low risk of default and the issuer has a strong capacity to meet its contractual 
cash flow obligations in the near term.
 
(i) Trade receivables
	
	
The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-payment by customers. Customer credit risk is managed 
subject to the Company’s established policy, procedures and control relating to customer credit risk management. 
An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date by grouping the receivables in homogeneous group. The 
calculation is based on lifetime expected credit losses.
	
	
Expected credit loss for trade receivable under simplified approach- period ended March 31, 2022
Ageing in years
Unbilled 
Dues
Not 
due
0-1 
year
1-2 
year
2-3 
year
>3 year
Credit 
impaired
 Total 
Gross carrying amount
2,993
1,509
2,782
392
135
107
849
8,767
Expected credit losses  
(Loss allowance provision)
148          70 
129
283
125
104
849
1,708
Carrying amount  
(net of loss allowance)
2,845
1,439
2,653
109
10
3
         -  
7,059
Ageing in years
Unbilled 
Dues
Not 
due
0-1 
year
1-2 
year
2-3 
year
>3 
year
Credit 
impaired
Total
Gross carrying amount
  1,445 
  1,354
  2,339       290 
      126       187 
      706 6,447 
Expected credit losses  
(Loss allowance provision)
      258 
       38
      64
      173 
      116       177 
      706 
  
1,532 
Carrying amount  
(net of loss allowance)
  1,187 
   1,316 
  2,275 
      117 
       10         10 
         -  
4,915 
	
	
Expected credit loss for trade receivable under simplified approach- year ended March 31, 2021
158
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 178
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Reconciliation of loss allowance
Loss allowance measured 
at simplified approach
Loss allowance as on April 1, 2020
1,278
Creation during the year
  254
Loss Allowance as on March 31, 2021
1,532
Creation during the period
   236
Transferred pursuant to BTA (refer note 38)
(60)
Loss Allowance as on March 31, 2022
1,708
Reconciliation of loss allowance
Loss allowance measured 
at 12 month expected loss
Loss allowance as on April 1, 2020
65
Creation during the year
217
Loss allowance as on March 31, 2021
282
Creation during the period
460
Loss Allowance as on March 31, 2022
742
31.	Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd..)
Particulars
0-180 
days
181-365 
days
     1-2 Year
More than 
2 year
Total
As at  March 31,  2022
Borrowings
-
-
-
-
-
Lease liabilities
    266
212
374
2107
  2,959
Trade payables
 7,107
-
-
-
  7,107
Other financial liabilities
 7,308
-
-
-
  7,308
Total
      14,681
212
374
         2107
        17,374
As at  March 31,  2021
Borrowings
5,444
 -
-
-
5,444
Lease liabilities
     97
100
126
419
   742
Trade payables
6,137
-
-
-
    6,137
Other financial liabilities
4,161
-
-
-
    4,161
Total
      15,839
100
126
          419
       16,484
	
	
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of trade receivables. The Company 
does not hold collateral as security.
 
(ii) Other financial assets
	
	
Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Company’s treasury department in 
accordance with the Company’s policy. Investment of surplus funds is made only with banks of high repute.
	
	
The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the balance sheet at March 31, 2022 and 
March 31, 2021 is the carrying amounts as disclosed in Note 7.
c.	 Liquidity Risk
	
The Company’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank 
overdrafts, working capital loans etc. Company monitor their risk of shortage of funds using cash flow forecasting 
models. These models consider the maturity of their financial investments, committed funding and projected cash flows 
from operations. The Company’s objective is to provide financial resources to meet its business objectives in a timely, 
cost effective and reliable manner. A balance between continuity of funding and flexibility is maintained through the 
use of bank borrowings. The Company also monitors compliance with its debt covenants. The maturity profile of the 
Company’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments is given in the table below:
159
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 179
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
32. Capital Management
The Company’s objectives while managing capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to generate 
adequate returns for its shareholders and ensuring benefits for other stakeholders. The key objective of the Company’s 
capital management is to ensure that it maintains a stable capital structure with the focus on total equity, uphold investor; 
creditor and customer confidence, and ensure future development of its business activities. The Company manages its 
capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions or its business requirements.
Company's capital management objective is to remain majorly a debt-free company till the time it achieves break-even. In 
order to meet this objective, Company meets anticipated funding requirements for developing new businesses, expanding 
its geographical base, entering in to strategic mergers and acquisitions and other strategic investments, by issuance of 
equity capital together with cash generated from Company’s operating and investing activities. The company utilizes certain 
working capital facilities in the form of short term bank overdraft to meet anticipated interim working capital requirements. 
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the year ended March 31, 2022 
and March 31, 2021.
33. Segment Reporting
During the previous year ended March 31, 2021, the Company reassessed the basis of segment reporting. This reassessment 
was necessitated by the change in business strategy over the period, increased interdependency between various service 
lines, increased fungibility of resources/common cost, change in the way Board of Directors (Chief Operating Decision Maker 
“CODM”) review Company performance etc. Earlier, the Company disclosed four reportable segments that were Payment, 
Commerce, Cloud and others. 
In line with the above shift in business strategy and the consequent change in the way the CODM reviews the performance, 
management of the Company has aligned segment disclosure to the above change. Further, it has been concluded that 
though there are different business units of the Company, including Payment and Financial services, Commerce and cloud 
services, information reviewed by the CODM is at the revenue level and the Company does not allocate operating costs and 
expenses, assets and liabilities across business units, as the CODM does not use such information to allocate resources or 
evaluate the performance of the business units. Allocation of resources and assessment of financial performance is done at 
the consolidated level.
Accordingly, it has been assessed that Company operates in a single Operating as well as Reportable Segment. 
The Company has revenues primarily from customers domiciled in India. Substantially all of the Company’s non-current 
operating assets are domiciled in India.
Information about major customers
Revenue of H 6,379 are derived from one external customer (March 31, 2021: H 8,628 from one external customers).
34.	Details of Transactions and outstanding balances of Paytm E-Commerce Private Limited (PEPL)
Details of transactions entered during the year
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Rendering of services to PEPL
1,194
1,344
Reimbursement of expenses incurred on behalf of PEPL
122
314
Interest Income on unwinding of Discount
-
110
Services received from PEPL
189
242
160
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 180
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Other Financial Assets*
13
6,394
Trade payables
79
202
Other Financial Liability
-
58
Contract liabilities
4176
5,206
Trade Receivable
30
77
Details of outstanding balances
34.	Details of Transactions and outstanding balances of Paytm E-Commerce Private Limited (PEPL) 
(Contd..)
*Other receivable from other parties given in Note 7 (d) of the Standalone financial Statements includes derivative assets of H Nil (March 31, 2021 : H 56). 
The same is not included in the above reported balances.
35. Overdue outstanding foreign currency receivable and payable
As of March 31, 2022, the Company has certain foreign currency receivable balances aggregating to H 24, H 64 and H 261 
which are outstanding for more than nine months, fifteen months (extended from nine months via RBI circular- RBI/2019-
20/206 A. P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 27 dated April 1, 2020, for the exports made up to or on July 31, 2020) and three 
years, respectively. The Company has applied to the AD Bank seeking permission for extension of time for realisation for 
receivables amounting to H 63 and write-off of receivables amounting to H 1. Further, an application has been made to the RBI 
vide the letter dated December 17, 2020 for seeking approval for extension of time-limit of outstanding receivable balances 
amounting to H 191 and write off of receivable balances amounting to H 94 and approval is currently awaited.
As of March 31, 2022, the Company also has certain foreign currency payable balances aggregating to H 1.33* which are 
outstanding for more than three years. The Company has also filed an application to Reserve Bank of India (RBI) vide 
letters dated July 29, 2021 and August 9, 2021 for H 1.33* for permission to write-back payable balances and approval is  
currently awaited.
Management does not expect any material financial implication on account of the delay under existing regulations.
* Amount disclosed up to two decimal places.
36. Transfer pricing
The Company has established a comprehensive system of maintenance of information and documents as required by 
the transfer pricing legislation under sections 92-92F of the Income Tax Act, 1961. For this purpose, the Company has 
appointed independent consultants for conducting Transfer Pricing Study. Management is of the opinion that its international 
transactions with associated enterprises have been undertaken at arms' length basis at duly negotiated prices on usual 
commercial terms. The transfer pricing study for the year ended March 31, 2021 has been completed which did not result in 
any material adjustment.
37. Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR) expenditure
The Company has not earned net profit in three immediately preceding financial years, therefore, there was no amount as 
per section 135 of the Act which was required to be spent on CSR activities in the current financial year by the Company. 
However, the Company has spent an amount of H 14 (March 31, 2021: H 4) as CSR expenditure.
38. The Company has transferred online Payment Aggregator business to Paytm Payments Services Limited, a wholly owned 
subsidiary of the Company, to comply with Guidelines on Regulation of Payment Aggregators And Payment Gateways' issued 
by RBI via circular dated March 17, 2020. This business transfer agreement has been approved by Board and Shareholders 
on August 30, 2021 and September 23, 2021 respectively. The consideration of H 2,838 million for transfer of business would 
be settled in cash based on the carrying value of the net assets of the business as on September 1, 2021, being the date of 
transfer of operations. For accounting purposes date of effective loss of control over the above business has been taken as 
September 30, 2021 considering that the transaction was approved by the shareholders on September 23, 2021 and final 
161
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 181
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
submission was made to RBI on September 30, 2021. The consideration is to be paid in 5 equal annual installments payable at 
the end of each year without any interest. The difference between present value of consideration and net assets amounting 
to H 601 million has been accounted as ‘Deemed Investment’ in Standalone Financial Statements. The transferred operations 
are not considered as discontinued operations in the Standalone Financial Statements of the Company in accordance with 
Ind AS. Consequent to the aforesaid transfer, figures for the previous year presented are not comparable with the figures for 
the year ended March 31, 2022.
39. During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Company has completed its initial public offer (IPO) of 85,116,278 equity 
shares of face value of H 1 each at an issue price of H 2,150 per share, comprising fresh issue of 38,604,651 shares and offer 
for sale of 46,511,627 shares by selling shareholders. Pursuant to the IPO, the equity shares of the Company were listed on 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) and BSE Limited (BSE) on November 18, 2021.
The Company has incurred H 4,115 million as IPO related expenses and allocated such expenses between the Company  
H 1,866 million and selling shareholders H 2,249 million. Such amounts were allocated based on agreement between the 
Company and selling shareholders and in proportion to the total proceeds of the IPO. Out of Company's share of expenses 
of H 1,866 million, H 1,401 million has been adjusted to securities premium.
Details of utilisation of net IPO Proceeds of H 81,134 million, are as follows:
38. (Contd..)
(H in Crores)
S. 
No
Objects of the issue
Amount as 
proposed in 
Offer Document
Amount utilised 
up to March 31, 
2022
Amount un-
utilised as on 
March 31, 2022
1
Growing and strengthening our Paytm ecosystem, 
including through acquisition and retention of 
consumers and merchants and providing them with 
greater access to technology and financial services
43,000
35,530
i)	 Marketing and promotional expenses
1,552
ii)	 Expanding our merchant base and deepening our 
partnership with our merchants
3,318
iii)	 Strengthening and expanding our technology 
powered payments platform
2,600
Total (A)
43,000
7,470
35,530
2
Investing in new business initiatives, acquisitions and 
strategic partnerships
20,000
20,000
i)	 Investments in new business initiatives
	
a)	 Payment Services
-
	
b)	 Commerce and cloud services
-
	
c) 	 Financial Services
-
ii)	 Investments in acquisitions and strategic 
partnerships
-
Total (B)
20,000
-
20,000
3
General corporate purposes
18,134
2,028
16,106
Total (C)
18,134
2,028
16,106
Total (A+B+C)
81,134
9,498
71,636
Net IPO proceeds which were un-utilised as at March 31, 2022 were temporarily invested in fixed deposits with scheduled 
commercial banks and in monitoring agency account.
162
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 182
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
40. During the period ended June 30, 2021, the Company had filed an adjudication application under Section 454 read 
with Section 62(1)(b) and Section 450 of the Companies Act, 2013 before the office of the Registrar of Companies, NCT 
of Delhi & Haryana (ROC) on June 26, 2021, to adjudicate on the non-compliance with the provisions of Section 62(1)(b) 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) read with Rule 12(1) of the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014 
(“the Rules”) in relation to grants of Employee Stock Options (ESOPs) made in earlier years to an employee. Consequently, 
the Company had cancelled the said ESOP grants on July 5, 2021. Further, the shares issued to the concerned employee 
pursuant to exercise of certain vested ESOPs were also transferred by the employee to Paytm Associate Benefit Welfare 
Trust (Formerly known as One97 Employee Welfare Trust). The cumulative charge recognized till date in respect of the 
aforesaid ESOPs amounted to H 106.
During the quarter ended December 31, 2021, the ROC vide its order dated November 30, 2021, had directed the Company 
to move an appropriate application for composition of offence under the relevant provision of the Act. Consequently, the 
Company has filed a compounding application under section 441 read with section 62(1)(b) and Section 450 of the Act read 
with the Rules, before the Office of the Regional Director (Northern Region), Ministry of Corporate Affairs, New Delhi (‘RD’) 
on December 25, 2021.  On March 15, 2022 RD has issued an order whereby RD has compounded the offence and levied 
compounding fees which has been duly paid and aforesaid matter is closed.
163
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 183
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2022
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
41. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III
(i)(a)The Company has granted loans and made investment in some of its subsidiary companies, associate companies, joint ventures and other parties. Loans has been given for 
general corporate purpose. In some of the cases, the susbidiaries, associates and joint ventures have utilised equity and borrowings for further investment as per their business 
requirement. Details of these Loans and investments are as follows:
Name of 
Intermediary
CIN
Relation 
with 
Company
Type
Date
Amount
Name of Ultimate 
beneficiary
Relation with Intermediary
Type
Date
Amount
Admirable Software 
Limited
U72900DL2021PLC385287
Associate 
Company
Optionally 
Convertible 
Debentures
August 27, 
2021
175
Urja Money Private 
Limited
Ultimate beneficiary is the subsidiary 
of the company which has significant 
influence over the intermediary
Equity 
Investment
August 27, 2021
175
Admirable Software 
Limited
U72900DL2021PLC385287
Associate 
Company
Optionally 
Convertible 
Debentures
February 
11, 2022
57
Mobiquest Mobile 
Technologies Private 
Limited
Ultimate beneficiary is the subsidiary 
of the company which has significant 
influence over the intermediary
Equity 
Investment
February 18, 2022
7
Urja Money Private 
Limited
U93000MH2012PTC237284
Subsidiary 
Company
Loan
June 30, 
2021
15
Fincollect Services 
Private Limited
Subsidiary of the intermediary
Loan
July 15, 2021
5
Urja Money Private 
Limited
U93000MH2012PTC237284
Subsidiary 
Company
Optionally 
Convertible 
Debentures
September 
28, 2021
30
Fincollect Services 
Private Limited
Subsidiary of the intermediary
Loan
September 30, 2021
1
October 1, 2021
*
October 7, 2021
*
October 18, 2021
15
November 2, 2021
*
November 30, 2021
*
December 31, 2021
3
January 6, 2022
*
Paytm First Games 
Private Limited 
U74999DL2017PTC325912
Joint 
Venture
Loan
June 7, 
2021
803
Paytm First Games 
Singapore Pte Limited
Subsidiary of the intermediary
Equity 
Investment
June 30, 2021
28
Paytm First Games 
Singapore Pte Limited
Subsidiary of the intermediary
Equity 
Investment
September 6, 2021
11
Paytm Technology 
Beijing Co., Limited
Subsidiary of the intermediary
Equity 
Investment
September 4, 2021
1
	
The above transactions are in compliance with the relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
transactions are not violative of the Prevention of Money-Laundering act, 2002 (15 of 2003).
(i)(b) The Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or 
otherwise) that the Company shall: a. directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(Ultimate Beneficiaries) or b. provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
164
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 184
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2022
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
(ii)	 The Company has availed loan from a bank on the basis of security of current assets as disclosed under note 13(a) of the financial statements. There is no borrowing outstanding 
as on March 31, 2022. The Company files statement of current assets with the bank on quarterly basis. There are no material discrepancies between the statement filed and the 
books of accounts.
(iii) Disclosure of Struck off Companies
	
Details of transactions entered into by the Company with companies struck off under section 248 of the Companies Act, 2013 or section 560 of Companies Act, 1956 are as 
follows:
41. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
Name of the struck off company 
 Balance outstanding 
as at March 31, 2022 
 Balance outstanding 
as at March 31, 2021 
Relationship with the 
struck off company
Dravya Technosys Private Limited
 - 
 * 
 Vendor 
Global Softnet Software Private Limited
 - 
 * 
 Vendor 
Zapcel Technologies Pvt Ltd        
 * 
 * 
 Vendor 
One M Infomedia Private Limited    
 * 
 * 
 Vendor 
Vektrix Consulting Private Limited 
 * 
 * 
 Vendor 
Deep Enterprises Pvt Ltd
 - 
 * 
 Vendor 
Shine Star Luxary Coach And Cargo Private Limited
 * 
 - 
 Customer 
Lahori Foods Private Limited       
 * 
 * 
 Customer 
Automark Pvt Ltd                   
 * 
 * 
 Customer 
Sripati Infracon Private Limited   
 2 
 2 
 Customer 
Life Plus Living Private Limited   
 * 
 * 
 Customer 
Deep Enterprises Pvt Ltd           
 * 
 - 
 Customer 
Bquobe Infosystem Private Limited  
 * 
 * 
 Customer 
SRS Entertainment Limited          
 * 
 * 
 Customer 
	
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
165
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 185
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2022
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
41. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
(iv)	 Analytical Ratios
	
The following reflects the ratios and data used in the computation:
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
Ratio
% 
Variance  Reason for variance 
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2021
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2021
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2021
(a)	Current Ratio = Current Assets / Current Liabilities
 91,773 
 70,181 
 21,317 
 20,366 
 4.31 
 3.45 
24.93% N/A
(b)	Debt-Equity Ratio = Total Debt / Shareholder’s Equity
 2,042 
 5,884 
 137,125 
 69,845 
 0.01 
 0.08 
(82.32%) The Company has raised share 
capital during the year resulting 
in change in the ratio.
(c)	Debt Service Coverage Ratio = Earnings available for debt 
service / Debt Service
 (20,585)
 (13,711)
 607 
 1,337 
 N/A 
 N/A 
 N/A N/A, refer note (i)
(d)	Return on Equity Ratio = Net Profit / Average Shareholder’s 
Equity
 (23,251)
 (15,601)
 103,485 
 76,980 (22.47%)
(20.27%)
10.86% N/A
(e)	Trade Receivables turnover ratio = Total Sales / Average 
Accounts Receivable
 38,924 
 26,671 
 5,987
 4,820 
 6.50 
 5.53 
17.49% N/A
(f)	 Trade payables turnover ratio = Total Purchase / Average 
Accounts Payable
 41,855 
 34,576 
 6,622 
 6,127 
 6.32 
 5.64 
11.99% N/A
(g)	Net capital turnover ratio = Total Sales / Working Capital
 38,924 
 26,671 
 70,456 
 49,814 
 0.55 
 0.54 
3.18% N/A
(h)	Net profit ratio = Net profit / Total Sales
 (23,251)
 (15,601)
 38,924 
 26,671 (59.73%)
(58.49%)
2.12% N/A
(i)	 Return on Capital employed = EBIT / Capital employed
 (25,256)
 (18,361)
 139,069 
 75,614 
(18.16%)
(24.28%)
(25.21%) Capital employed has increased 
during the year on account of 
issue of shares by the Company 
resulting in change in the ratio.
(j)	 Return on investment = Net Profit / Total Assets
 (23,251)
 (15,601)
 163,566 
 94,796 (14.22%)
(16.46%)
(13.62%) N/A
166
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 186
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
	
Notes:
	
(i)	 Debt Service Coverage Ratio has not been computed as Earnings available for debt service are negative for current 
year and previous year.
	
	
Total Debt = Borrowings + Lease liabilities	
	
	
Shareholder’s Equity = Total Equity
	
	
Earning available for Debt Service = Loss for the year + Depreciation and amortization expense + Finance costs 
+ Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets written off + Loss/(profit) on sale of property, plant and 
equipment (net)
	
	
Debt Service = Interest paid + Repayment of term loan + Principal elements of lease payments
	
	
Total Sales = Revenue from operations
	
	
Total Purchase = Payment processing charges + Marketing and promotional expenses + Software, cloud and data 
centre expenses + Other expenses - Provision for advances - Loss allowance for financial assets - Trade receivables 
/ advance written off - Goods and services tax expense off - Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 
written off - Exchange differences (net)	
	
	
Net Profit = Loss for the year	
	
	
Working Capital = Current Assets - Current Liabilities	
	
	
EBIT = Loss before exceptional items and tax + Finance costs - Other income
	
	
Capital employed = Total Equity - Intangible assets - Intangible assets under development + Borrowings + Lease 
liabilities
(v)	Details of benami property held
	
The Company does not hold any benami property and no proceedings have been initiated on or are pending against the 
Company under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 (as amended in 2016) (formerly the Benami 
Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988)) and Rules made thereunder.
(vi) Wilful defaulter
	
The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government 
authority.
(vii) Compliance with number of layers of companies
	
The Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013.
(viii) Compliance with approved scheme(s) of arrangements
	
The Company has not entered into any scheme of arrangement which has an accounting impact on current or previous 
financial year.
(ix) Undisclosed income
	
There is no income surrendered or disclosed as income during the current or previous year in the tax assessments under 
the Income Tax Act, 1961, that has not been recorded in the books of account.
(x) Details of crypto currency or virtual currency
	
The Company has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the current or previous year.
41. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
167
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 187
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
(xi) Valuation of PP&E, intangible asset and investment property
	
The Company does not  have any investment property during the current or previous year. The Company has chosen 
cost model for its Property, Plant and Equipment and intangible assets and hence no revaluation was carried out for 
these assets.
(xii) Title deeds of immovable properties not held in name of the company 
	
The title deeds of all the immovable properties are held in the name of the Company during the current and previous 
year.
(xiii) Registration of charges or satisfaction with Registrar of Companies
	
There are no charges or satisfaction which are yet to be registered with the Registrar of Companies beyond the statutory 
period.
(xiv) Utilisation of borrowings availed from banks and financial institutions.
	
The Company has utilised the borrowing for the purpose it was obtainded.
42. Previous year figures, wherever necessary, have been regrouped/reclassified to conform to current period classification.
41. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of
Firm registration number: 012754N/ N500016	
One 97 Communications Limited
Amitesh Dutta	
Vijay Shekhar Sharma	
Madhur Deora 
Partner	
Chairman, Managing Director and CEO	
Chief Financial Officer
Membership No: 058507	
DIN No. 00466521
Place: Gurugram	
Place: New Delhi	
Place: Mumbai 
Date: May 20, 2022	
Date: May 20, 2022	
Date: May 20, 2022 
	
Amit Khera
	
Company Secretary
	
Place: Noida
	
Date: May 20, 2022
168
Notes to the 
Standalone Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 188
Independent Auditor’s Report
To  
The Members of One 97 Communications Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements 
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the accompanying Consolidated 
Financial Statements of One 97 Communications 
Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Holding 
Company”) and its subsidiaries (Holding Company and 
its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), its 
associate companies and joint ventures (refer Note 23 
to the attached Consolidated Financial Statements), 
which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as 
at March 31, 2022, and the Consolidated Statement 
of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive 
Income), the Consolidated Statement of Changes in 
Equity  and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
for the year then ended, and notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, including a summary of significant 
accounting policies and other explanatory information 
(hereinafter referred to as “the Consolidated Financial 
Statements ”).
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid 
Consolidated Financial Statements give the information 
required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in 
the manner so required and give a true and fair view 
in conformity with the accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of 
the Group, its associate companies and joint ventures as 
at March 31, 2022, of consolidated total comprehensive 
income (comprising of loss and other comprehensive 
income), consolidated changes in equity and its 
consolidated cash flows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 
143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those 
Standards are further described in the “Auditor’s 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements” section of our report. We are 
independent of the Group, its associate companies 
and joint ventures in accordance with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements in India in terms of 
the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India and the relevant provisions 
of the Act, and we have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors 
in terms of their reports referred to in sub-paragraph 
17 of the Other Matters section below, other than the 
unaudited financial statements/ financial information 
as certified by the management and referred to in 
sub-paragraph 18 of the Other Matters section below, 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for  
our opinion. 
Emphasis of Matter
4.	
We draw your attention to the following matters:
	
a)	
Note 2.1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
which describes the management’s assessment 
of the impact of the outbreak of Coronavirus 
(COVID-19) 
on 
the 
business 
operations 
of 
the Group. In view of the uncertain economic 
environment, a definitive assessment of the impact 
on the subsequent periods is highly dependent 
upon circumstances as they evolve.
	
b)	 Note 39 to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
which describes:
	
	
i.	
non-realisation of foreign currency receivables 
as at March 31, 2022 aggregating to H 355 million 
outstanding beyond the stipulated time period 
permitted under the RBI Master Direction on 
Export of Goods and Services vide FED Master 
Direction No. 16/2015-16 dated January 1, 2016 
(as amended), issued by the Reserve Bank of 
India (RBI). The Group has made the necessary 
application with the Authorised Dealer (AD) 
banker/RBI seeking extension of time limit for 
remittance for certain balances and write-off of 
the remaining balances. 
	
	
ii.	
non-settlement of foreign currency payables 
as at March 31, 2022 amounting to H 1.33 million 
due for More than three years being the time 
permitted under the RBI Master Direction on 
Import of Goods and Services vide FED Master 
Direction No. 17/2016-17 dated January 1, 2016 
(as amended) issued by the RBI. The Parent 
Company has filed an application to the RBI for 
permission to write-back the aforesaid payable 
balances.
	
c) 	 Note 
42(c) 
to 
the 
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements, which indicates that one of the 
Subsidiary Company's financial assets as at March 
31, 2021 were more than 50% of its total assets 
and its income from financial assets was more than 
50% of the total income for FY 20-21. As per the 
press release dated April 8, 1999 issued by Reserve 
Bank of India (RBI) the Subsidiary Company fulfils 
the principal business criteria for being classified 
169
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 189
as a Non-Banking Financial Company (NBFC) as 
at March 31, 2021 and accordingly is required to 
obtain registration as such. However, the Subsidiary 
Company’s Management has stated that this 
position is temporary in nature and the Subsidiary 
Company has no intention of conducting the 
business as an NBFC, and accordingly it had filed 
an application with the RBI seeking dispensation 
from registration as NBFC.
	
d)	 Note 
42(d) 
to 
the 
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements, relating to one of the Joint venture 
companies which describes:
	
	
i.	
Non-settlement of foreign currency payables as 
at March 31, 2022 amounting to H 219 million, 
due for more than six months. This is beyond the 
time permitted under the RBI Master Direction on 
Import of Goods and Services vide FED Master 
Direction No. 17/2016-17 (as amended). The 
Company has made the necessary application 
with the Authorised Dealer (AD) banker on April 
27, 2022 seeking extension of time limit for 
remittance of the same.
	
	
ii.	
Non-realisation of foreign currency receivables 
as at March 31, 2022 amounting to H 0.4 
million, outstanding for more than nine months. 
This is beyond the time period permitted under 
the RBI Master Direction on Export of Goods 
and Services vide FED Master Direction No. 
16/2015-16 (as amended), issued by the 
Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The Company has 
made the necessary application with the AD 
banker on April 8, 2022 seeking extension of 
time limit for realization of the same.
	
Our opinion is not modified in respect of the above 
matters.
5.	
The following emphasis of matter paragraph has been 
included in the independent auditor’s report dated 
May 4, 2022 issued by independent firm of chartered 
accountants on the audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements of Nearbuy India Private Limited which has 
been reported as under:
	
“Emphasis of Matter – Effects of COVID-19
	
We draw attention to Note 1(a) of the accompanying 
Ind AS financial statements, which describes the 
management's evaluation of impact of uncertainties 
related to COVID-19 and its consequential effects on 
the carrying value of its assets as at March 31, 2022 
and the operations of the Company. Our opinion is not 
modified in respect of this matter.”
	
Note 1(a) referred above corresponds to Note 42(a) to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
6.	
The following emphasis of matter paragraph has been 
included in the independent auditor’s report dated 
May 5, 2022 issued by independent firm of chartered 
accountants on the audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements of Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited 
which has been reported as under:
	
“Emphasis of Matter
	
We draw attention to Note 2.1 to the accompanying 
Ind AS financial statements, which describes the 
management's evaluation of impact of uncertainties 
related to COVID-19 and it consequential effects on 
the carrying value of its assets as at March 31, 2022 
and the operations of the Company. Our opinion is not 
modified in respect of this matter.”
	
Note 2.1 referred above corresponds to Note 42(b) to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
170
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 190
Key audit matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Assessment 
of 
impairment 
of 
goodwill 
relating 
to acquisition of subsidiaries and assessment of 
appropriateness of the carrying value of investments in 
associates
(Refer accompanying notes 2.2, 2.4, 2.5(j), 2.5(n), 
2.5(u), 4, 5(b), 20 and 36 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements)
The Group performed an impairment assessment over 
the goodwill balance by calculating the recoverable 
value of the cash generating unit (CGU) to which the 
Goodwill belongs using a discounted cash flow model 
and comparing the same with the carrying value. For the 
purpose of impairment assessment, each subsidiary is 
considered as separate CGU.
Our procedures to assess impairment of goodwill relating 
to acquisition of subsidiaries and appropriateness of the 
assessment of carrying value of investments in associates 
included the following:
•	
We obtained an understanding from the management, 
assessed and tested the design and operating 
effectiveness of the Company’s key controls over the 
impairment and valuation assessment.
The management has estimated future cash flows for 
a 5 year period and a terminal growth rate is applied in 
determining the terminal value.
Further, there are certain investments in associates which 
are carried at cost (subject to impairment assessment).
We considered impairment assessment of goodwill and 
carrying value of associate’s investment as key audit 
matter given the extent of management judgement and 
the estimates involved around impairment assessment 
with respect to determining appropriate discount rates, 
cash flow projections (Cash flow forecasts) and earnings 
growth rates applied beyond the initial five-year period 
(Terminal growth rates).
•	
We evaluated the Company’s process regarding 
impairment and carrying value assessment by involving 
auditor’s valuation experts to assist in assessing the 
appropriateness of the valuation and impairment 
model including the independent assessment of the 
underlying assumptions relating to cash flow, discount 
rate, terminal value, etc. for material investments.
•	
We checked the mathematical accuracy of the valuation 
and impairment model and agreed relevant data back 
to the latest budgets, actual past results and other 
supporting documents.
•	
We assessed the Company’s sensitivity analysis and 
evaluated whether any reasonably foreseeable change 
in assumptions could lead to impairment or material 
change in the carrying value.
•	
We assessed adequacy of relevant disclosures in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Based on the above audit procedures performed, the 
Management’s assessment of the impairment of goodwill 
on acquisition of subsidiaries and carrying value of the 
investments in associates was considered to be reasonable.
does not cover the other information and we do not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In 
connection with our audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether the 
other information is materially inconsistent with the 
Consolidated Financial Statements or our knowledge 
obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated. If, based on the work we have 
performed and the reports of the other auditors 
as furnished to us (Refer paragraph 17 below), we 
Key Audit Matters
7.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion 
on these matters.  
Other Information
8.	
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for the other information. The other information 
comprises the information included in the Holding 
Company’s Board’s Report, Corporate Governance 
Report, Management Discussion and Analysis Report, 
Business Responsibility Report and Shareholder’s 
information but does not include the Consolidated 
Financial Statements and our auditor’s report thereon. 
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements 
171
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 191
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this 
other information, we are required to report that fact. 
We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and Those 
Charged With Governance for the Consolidated 
Financial Statements 
9.	
The 
Holding 
Company’s 
Board 
of 
Directors 
is 
responsible for the preparation and presentation of 
these Consolidated Financial Statements in term of the 
requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view 
of the consolidated financial position, consolidated 
financial performance and consolidated cash flows, 
and changes in equity of the Group including its 
associate companies and joint ventures in accordance 
with the accounting principles generally accepted in 
India, including the Accounting Standards specified 
under Section 133 of the Act. The respective Board 
of Directors of the companies included in the Group 
and of its associate companies and joint ventures are 
responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for 
safeguarding the assets of the Group and for preventing 
and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection 
and application of appropriate accounting policies; 
making judgments and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; and the design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, 
that were operating effectively for ensuring accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, relevant 
to the preparation and presentation of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements  that give a true and fair view and 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of 
preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
by the Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
10.	 In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, the 
respective Board of Directors of the companies included 
in the Group and of its associate companies and  joint 
ventures are responsible for assessing the ability of 
the Group and of its associate companies and joint 
ventures to continue as a going concern, disclosing, 
as applicable, matters related to going concern and 
using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
management either intends to liquidate the Group or to 
cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to 
do so.
11.	 The respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group and of its associate companies 
and joint ventures are responsible for overseeing the 
financial reporting process of the Group and of its 
associate companies and joint ventures.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements 
12.	 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the Consolidated Financial Statements 
as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s 
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance 
is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee 
that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will 
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 
they could reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of 
these Consolidated Financial Statements.
13.	 As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional 
scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
	
•	
Identify 
and 
assess 
the 
risks 
of 
material 
misstatement 
of 
the 
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements, whether due to fraud or error, design 
and perform audit procedures responsive to those 
risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting 
from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, 
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the 
override of internal control.
	
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant 
to the audit in order to design audit procedures 
that 
are 
appropriate 
in 
the 
circumstances. 
Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also 
responsible for expressing our opinion on whether 
the Holding company has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements in place and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls.
	
•	
Evaluate 
the 
appropriateness 
of 
accounting 
policies 
used 
and 
the 
reasonableness 
of 
accounting estimates and related disclosures made  
by management.
	
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether 
a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
ability of the Group and its associate companies 
and joint ventures to continue as a going concern. 
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, 
we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s 
report to the related disclosures in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions 
are based on the audit evidence obtained up to 
the date of our auditor’s report. However, future 
events or conditions may cause the Group and its 
associate companies and joint ventures to cease to 
continue as a going concern. 
172
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 192
	
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
including the disclosures, and whether the 
Consolidated Financial Statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner 
that achieves fair presentation. 
	
•	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the financial information of the entities 
or business activities within the Group and 
its associate companies and joint ventures to 
express an opinion on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements. We are responsible for the direction, 
supervision and performance of the audit of the 
financial statements of such entities included in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements of which we 
are the independent auditors. For the other entities 
included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
which have been audited by other auditors, such 
other auditors remain responsible for the direction, 
supervision and performance of the audits carried 
out by them. We remain solely responsible for our 
audit opinion.
14.	 We communicate with those charged with governance 
of the Holding Company and such other entities 
included in the Consolidated Financial Statements 
of which we are the independent auditors regarding, 
among other matters, the planned scope and timing 
of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any significant deficiencies in internal control that we 
identify during our audit.
15.	 We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and 
to communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to 
bear on our independence, and where applicable,  
related safeguards.
16.	 From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance, we determine those matters that were 
of most significance in the audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements of the current period and are 
therefore the key audit matters. We describe these 
matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation 
precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, 
in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that 
a matter should not be communicated in our report 
because the adverse consequences of doing so would 
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest 
benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
17.	 We did not audit the financial statements/financial 
information 
of 
13 
subsidiaries 
whose 
financial 
statements/ financial information reflect total assets of 
H 15,950 million and net assets of H 11,869 million as at 
March 31, 2022, total revenue of H 3,277 million, total 
comprehensive income (comprising of loss and other 
comprehensive income) of H 8,591 million and net cash 
outflows amounting to H 316 million for the year ended on 
that date, as considered in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements. The Consolidated Financial Statements 
also include the Group’s share of total comprehensive 
income (comprising of loss and other comprehensive 
income) of H 65 million for the year ended March 31, 
2022 as considered in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, in respect of 4 associate companies and 1 
joint venture respectively, whose financial statements/ 
financial information have not been audited by us. These 
financial statements/ financial information have been 
audited by other auditors whose reports have been 
furnished to us by the Management, and our opinion 
on the Consolidated Financial Statements insofar as 
it relates to the amounts and disclosures included 
in respect of these subsidiaries, joint venture and 
associate companies and our report in terms of sub-
section (3) of Section 143 of the Act including report on 
Other Information insofar as it relates to the aforesaid 
subsidiaries, joint venture and associate companies, is 
based solely on the reports of the other auditors.  
18.	 We did not audit the financial statements/financial 
information 
of 
10 
subsidiaries 
whose 
financial 
statements/ financial information reflect total assets 
of H 356 million and net assets of H (-) 67 million as at 
March 31, 2022, total revenue of H 268 million, total 
comprehensive income (comprising of loss and other 
comprehensive income) of H 18 million and net cash 
inflows amounting to H 113 million for the year ended on 
that date, as considered in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements. The Consolidated Financial Statements 
also include the Group’s share of total comprehensive 
income (comprising of loss and other comprehensive 
income) of H 20 million for the year ended March 31, 
2022 as considered in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, in respect of 3 associate companies and 1 
joint venture respectively, whose financial statements/ 
financial information have not been audited by us. These 
financial statements/ financial information are unaudited 
and have been furnished to us by the Management, and 
our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements 
insofar as it relates to the amounts and disclosures 
included in respect of these subsidiaries, joint venture 
and associate companies and our report in terms of 
sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the Act including 
report on Other Information insofar as it relates to 
the aforesaid subsidiaries, joint venture and associate 
companies, is based solely on such unaudited financial 
statements/ financial information. In our opinion and 
according to the information and explanations given 
to us by the Management, these financial statements/ 
financial information are not material to the Group.
	
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements below, is not modified in respect of the 
above matters with respect to our reliance on the work 
173
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 193
done and the reports of the other auditors and the 
financial statements/ financial information certified by 
the Management.
Report 
on 
Other 
Legal 
and 
Regulatory 
Requirements
19.	 As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (“CARO 2020”), issued by the Central Government 
of India in terms of sub-section (11) of Section 143 of 
the Act, we give in the Annexure B, a statement on the 
matter specified in paragraph 3(xxi) of CARO 2020.
20.	 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to 
the extent applicable, that:
	
(a)	 We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for the 
purposes of our audit of the aforesaid Consolidated  
Financial Statements.
	
(b)	 In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid 
Consolidated Financial Statements have been kept 
so far as it appears from our examination of those 
books and the reports of the other auditors.
	
(c)	 The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other 
Comprehensive 
Income), 
the 
Consolidated 
Statement 
of 
Changes 
in 
Equity 
and 
the 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows dealt with 
by this Report are in agreement with the relevant 
books of account and records maintained for 
the purpose of preparation of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
	
(d)	 In our opinion, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial 
Statements comply with the Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act.
	
(e)	 The following matter has been included under 
paragraph 2(e) of the ‘Report on Other Legal 
and Regulatory Requirements’ section in the 
independent’s auditors report dated May 5, 
2022 issued by independent firm of chartered 
accountants on the audit of the financial statements 
of Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited which 
has been reported as under:
	
	
The matter described in Emphasis of Matter 
paragraph above, in our opinion, may have an 
adverse effect on the functioning of the Company ”  
	
(f)	 The following matter has been included under 
paragraph 2(e) of the ‘Report on Other Legal 
and Regulatory Requirements’ section in the 
independent’s auditors report dated May 4, 
2022 issued by independent firm of chartered 
accountants on the audit of the financial statements 
of Nearbuy India Private Limited which has been 
reported as under:
	
	
“ Emphasis of Matter – Effect of COVID-19 paragraph 
above, in our opinion, may have an adverse effect 
on the functioning of the Company ”   
	
(g)	 On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors of the Holding 
Company as on March 31, 2022 taken on record 
by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company 
and the reports of the statutory auditors of its 
subsidiary companies, associate companies and  
joint ventures incorporated in India, none of the 
directors of the Group companies, its associate 
companies and joint ventures incorporated in India 
is disqualified as on March 31, 2022 from being 
appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) 
of the Act.
	
(h)	 With respect to the adequacy of internal financial 
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Group and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate 
report in Annexure A.
	
(i)	 With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, in 
our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
	
	
i.	
The 
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements 
disclose the impact, if any, of pending 
litigations 
on 
the 
consolidated 
financial 
position of the Group, its associate companies 
and joint ventures– Refer Note 24 and 29(d) to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
	
	
ii.	
The Group, its associate companies and 
joint 
ventures 
had 
long-term 
contracts 
including derivative contracts as at March 
31, 2022 for which there were no material  
foreseeable losses.
	
	
iii.	 During the year ended March 31, 2022, there 
were no amounts which were required to be 
transferred to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Holding Company, and 
its subsidiary companies, associate companies 
and joint ventures incorporated in India.
	
	
iv.	 (a)	 The respective Managements of the 
Holding Company and its subsidiaries, 
associate companies and joint venture 
which are companies incorporated in India 
whose financial statements have been 
audited under the Act have represented 
to us and the other auditors of such 
subsidiaries, associate companies and 
joint venture respectively that, to the 
best of their knowledge and belief, other 
than as disclosed in the notes to the 
174
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 194
accounts, no funds (which are material 
either individually or in the aggregate) 
have 
been 
advanced 
or 
loaned 
or 
invested (either from borrowed funds or 
share premium or any other sources or 
kind of funds) by the Holding Company 
or any of such subsidiaries, associate 
companies and joint venture to or in any 
other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary 
shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest 
in other persons or entities identified in 
any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Holding Company or any of such 
subsidiaries, associate companies and 
joint venture (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like 
on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries 
(Refer Note 44 (i) to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements).
	
	
	
(b)	 The respective Managements of the 
Holding Company and its subsidiaries, 
associate companies and joint venture 
which are companies incorporated in India 
whose financial statements have been 
audited under the Act have represented 
to us and the other auditors of such 
subsidiaries, associate companies and 
joint venture respectively that, to the 
best of their knowledge and belief, other 
than as disclosed in the notes to the 
accounts, no funds (which are material 
either individually or in the aggregate) 
have been received by the Holding 
Company or any of such subsidiaries, 
associate companies and joint venture 
from any person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, that the Holding 
Company or any of such subsidiaries, 
associate companies and joint venture 
shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security or the 
like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries 
(Refer Note 44 (i) to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements).
	
	
	
(c)	 Based on the audit procedures, that 
has been considered reasonable and 
appropriate 
in 
the 
circumstances, 
performed by us and those performed by 
the auditors of the subsidiaries, associate 
companies and joint venture which are 
companies incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited 
under the Act, nothing has come to our 
or other auditor’s notice that has caused 
us or the other auditors to believe that 
the representations under sub-clause 
(i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e) contain any  
material misstatement.
	
	
v.	
The 
Holding 
Company, 
its 
subsidiary 
companies, associate companies and joint 
venture, has not declared or paid any dividend 
during the year.  
21.	 The Group, its associate companies and joint venture 
have paid/ provided for managerial remuneration in 
accordance with the requisite approvals mandated by 
the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V to 
the Act. 
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
Amitesh Dutta
Partner
Membership Number: 058507
UDIN: 22058507AJHXIU4207
Place: Gurugram
Date: May 20, 2022
175
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 195
Annexure A to Independent Auditor’s Report
Referred to in paragraph 20(h) of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of One 97 
Communications Limited on the Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended March 31, 2022
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
under clause (i) of sub-section 3 of Section 143 
of the Act
1.	
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of the Company as of and for the year ended 
March 31, 2022, we have audited the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements of One 
97 Communications Limited (hereinafter referred to as 
“the Holding Company”) and its subsidiary companies, 
its associate companies and joint venture, which 
are companies incorporated in India, as of that date. 
Reporting under clause (i) of sub section 3 of Section 
143 of the Act in respect of the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements 
is not applicable to 5 associates incorporated in India 
namely Paytm Insuretech Private Limited, Foster 
Payment Networks Private Limited, Infinity Transoft 
Solution Private Limited, Eatgood Technologies Private 
Limited and Socomo Technologies Private Limited, 
pursuant to MCA notification GSR 583(E) dated  
June 13, 2017.
Management’s 
Responsibility 
for 
Internal 
Financial Controls
2.	
The respective Board of Directors of the Holding 
Company, its subsidiary companies, its associate 
companies and joint venture, to whom reporting under 
clause (i) of sub section 3 of Section 143 of the Act 
in respect of the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements is 
applicable, which are companies incorporated in 
India, are responsible for establishing and maintaining 
internal financial controls based on internal control over 
financial reporting criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal 
control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal 
Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (“the 
Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (“ICAI”).  These responsibilities 
include the design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct 
of its business, including adherence to the respective 
company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, 
the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial 
information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
3.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company’s internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements based on our audit. We conducted 
our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note issued 
by the ICAI and the Standards on Auditing deemed to 
be prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Companies 
Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal 
financial controls, both applicable to an audit of internal 
financial controls and both issued by the ICAI. Those 
Standards and the Guidance Note require that we 
comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements was established and maintained 
and if such controls operated effectively in all  
material respects.
4.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain 
audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls system with reference to financial 
statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit 
of internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements included obtaining an understanding of 
internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and 
operating effectiveness of internal control based on 
the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend 
on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment 
of the risks of material misstatement of the financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors 
in terms of their reports referred to in the Other Matters 
paragraph below is sufficient and appropriate to provide 
a basis for our audit opinion on the Holding Company’s 
internal financial controls system with reference to 
consolidated financial statements.
176
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 196
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to financial statements
6.	
A company’s internal financial control with reference 
to financial statements is a process designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s 
internal financial control with reference to financial 
statements includes those policies and procedures 
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, 
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles, and 
that receipts and expenditures of the company are 
being made only in accordance with authorisations of 
management and directors of the company; and (3) 
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or 
timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a 
material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent 
Limitations 
of 
Internal 
Financial 
Controls with reference to financial statements
7.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements, including 
the possibility of collusion or improper management 
override of controls, material misstatements due to 
error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements to future 
periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial 
control with reference to financial statements may 
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, 
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
8.	
In our opinion, the Holding Company, its subsidiary 
companies, its associate companies and joint venture, 
which are companies incorporated in India, have, in 
all material respects, an adequate internal financial 
controls system with reference to financial statements 
and such internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements were operating effectively as at 
March 31, 2022, based on the internal control over 
financial reporting criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI. Also 
refer paragraph 4 (a), 5 and 6 of our main audit report.
Other Matters
9.	
Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on 
the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements 
insofar as it relates to 8 subsidiary companies and 4 
associate companies, which are companies incorporated 
in India, is based on the corresponding reports of the 
auditors of such companies incorporated in India. Our 
opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
Amitesh Dutta
Partner
Membership Number: 058507
UDIN: 22058507AJHXIU4207
Place: Gurugram
Date: May 20, 2022
177
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 197
Annexure B to Independent Auditor’s Report
Referred to in paragraph 19 of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of One 97 Communications 
Limited on the Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended March 31, 2022
I.	
As required by paragraph 3(xxi) of the CARO 2020, we report that the auditors of the following companies have given 
qualification or adverse remarks in their CARO report on the standalone/ consolidated financial statements of the 
respective companies included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Holding Company:
S. 
No.
Name of the 
Company
CIN
Relationship 
with the 
Holding 
Company
Date of the 
respective 
auditors’ 
report
Paragraph number and comment in the 
respective CARO report reproduced below
1.
Paytm 
Entertainment 
Limited
U74999DL2017PLC321165
Subsidiary
May 9, 2022 Paragraph no. xvi (a)
The Company was required to be registered 
under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of 
India Act, 1934 as a Non-banking Financial 
Company (NBFC) as the Company met the 
Principal Business Criteria specified in the Press 
Release 1998-99/1269 dated April 8, 1999 
issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) based 
on its financial statements as at and for year 
ended March 31, 2021. However, management 
has stated that this position is temporary in 
nature and the Company has no intention of 
conducting the business as an NBFC, and 
accordingly it has filed an application with the 
RBI seeking dispensation from the requirement 
of registration as an NBFC. (Refer note 36 to 
the Financial Statements and paragraph 4 of 
our main audit report).
Paragraph no. xvi (b)
Other than the loan transaction as described 
in Note 36 to the financial statements, which 
the Company has explained to have been 
undertaken not with any intention to carry 
on the business as an NBFC, the Company 
has not conducted any non-banking financial 
or housing finance activities during the year. 
Accordingly, the reporting under clause 
3(xvi)(b) of the Order is not applicable to 
the Company. Also refer our comment under 
clause (xvi)(a) above.
2.	
Orbgen Technologies Limited (CIN U72200TN2007PTC065476) (Subsidiary) vide auditor’s report dated May 13, 2022 
which is reproduced as under:
vii	 (a)	 According to the information and explanations given to us and the records of the Company examined by us, in our 
opinion, except for dues in respect of provident fund, the Company is generally regular in depositing undisputed 
statutory dues, in respect of employees’ state insurance, though there has been a slight delay in a few cases, and is 
regular in depositing undisputed statutory dues, including income tax, sales tax, service tax, duty of customs, duty 
178
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 198
Name of the statute
Nature of 
dues
Amount 
(J In Lakhs)*
Period to which the 
amount relates
Due date
Date of 
payment
The Employee’s Provident 
Funds and Miscellaneous 
Provisions  
Act, 1956
Provident 
Fund
6.24
September 2019
October 15, 2019
1.47
October 2019
November 15, 2019
1.24
November 2019
December 15, 2019
0.43
December 2019
January 15, 2020
0.38
January 2020
February 15, 2020
0.70
February 2020
March 15, 2020
0.11
March 2020
April 15, 2020
0.12
April 2020
May 15, 2020
0.06
May 2020
June 15, 2020
0.01
June 2020
July 15, 2020
1.12
February 2021
March 15, 2021
0.94
April 2021
May 15, 2021
0.41
May 2021
June 15, 2021
0.45
June 2021
July 15, 2021
8.85
July 2021
August 15, 2021
15.14
August 2021
September 15, 2021
8.12
September 2021
October 15, 2021
Name of the statute
Nature of Dues
Amount 
(J in Lakhs)
Period to which 
the amount relates
Due date
Date of Payment/ 
Remarks
The Employee’s 
Provident
Funds and 
Miscellaneous
Provisions Act,1956
Provident Fund
6.89
March 2019 to 
August 2021
15th of 
subsequent
month
H 6.61 lakhs paid on 
May 12, 2022.
Balance yet to be 
paid
The Employee’s 
Provident Funds and 
Miscellaneous
Provisions Act,1956
Interest and 
damages on 
Provident Fund
4.21
March 2019 to 
August 2021
15th of 
subsequent
month
Not yet paid
of excise, value added tax, cess, goods and services tax and other material statutory dues, as applicable, with the 
appropriate authorities. The extent of the arrears of statutory dues outstanding as at March 31, 2022, for a period 
of more than six months from the date they became payable are as follows:
	
	
Also, refer note 5.9(b) to the financial statements regarding management’s assessment on certain matters relating 
to provident fund.
3.	
Paytm Services Private Limited (CIN U74110KA2016PTC094535) (Subsidiary) vide auditor’s report dated May 12, 2022 
which is reproduced as under:
vii	 (a)	 According to the information and explanations given to us and the records of the Company examined by us, in our 
opinion, except for dues in respect of provident fund, the Company is generally regular in depositing undisputed 
statutory dues, in respect of employees’ state insurance and professional tax, though there has been a slight delay 
in a few cases, and is regular in depositing undisputed statutory dues, including income tax, cess, goods and 
services tax and other material statutory dues, as applicable, with the appropriate authorities. The extent of the 
arrears of statutory dues outstanding as at March 31, 2022, for a period of more than six months from the date they 
became payable are as follows:
	
	
*Also refer note 15 to the financial statements.
179
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 199
4.	
One 97 Communications Limited (CIN L72200DL2000PLC108985) (Holding company) vide our report dated May 20, 
2022 which is reproduced as under:
iii	
(c)	 In respect of the loans, the schedule of repayment of principal and payment of interest has been stipulated by the 
Company. Except for the following instances, the parties are repaying the principal amounts, as stipulated, and are 
also regular in payment of interest as applicable
Name of the entity
Amount (including 
accrued interest)
(J million)
Due Date
Extent of delay
Remarks (if any)
Little Internet Private 
Limited
87
Refer Note 1 below 
Refer Note 1 below
 Refer Note 1 below
Arthimpact Finserve 
Private Limited 
234
Refer Note 2 below
Refer Note 2 below
Refer Note 2 below
Paytm Financial Services 
Limited 
471
Refer Note 3 below
Refer Note 3 below
Refer Note 3 below
Urja Money Private 
Limited 
11
Refer Note 4 below
Refer Note 4 below
Refer Note 4 below
Robust Infocom Private 
Limited
265
Refer Note 5 below
Refer Note 5 below
Refer Note 5 below
Name of the parties
Aggregate amount dues renewed 
or extended or settled by fresh 
loans (J million)
Percentage of the aggregate to the 
total loans or advances in the nature 
of loans granted during the year
Arthimpact Finserve Private Limited
234
12%
Urja Money Private Limited
11
1%
Little Internet Private Limited
87
4%
	
	
Note 1:	 The Company had given loan to Little 
Internet Private Limited (LIPL), a subsidiary 
company, in December 2019. As per 
the agreement, this was to be repaid in 
equated monthly installments starting 
from 7th month after disbursement date 
till 24th month from the disbursement date 
i.e. December 30, 2021. The Company has 
issued a support letter to LIPL allowing 
it further time for repayment till the time 
it has surplus funds or March 31, 2023, 
whichever is earlier. 
	
	
Note 2:	 The Company had given loan of H 330 
million on March 25, 2021 with repayment 
date on June 30, 2021.  The Company 
entered into an addendum no. 1 dated 
August 11, 2021, w.e.f July 1, 2021 to 
extend loan of H 260 million to September 
30, 2021. The Company further entered 
into an addendum no. 2 dated December 
1, 2021, w.e.f October 1, 2021 to extend 
loan of H 237 million to December 31, 2021. 
	
	
Note 3:	 The loan was given in two tranches – H 250 
million on February 24, 2021 and H 200 
million on March 25, 2021. As per the terms 
the loan was to be repaid at the earlier of, at 
the end of 12 months from execution date 
or 30 days of day on which lender demand 
the repayment. The loan has been repaid 
subsequent to the year end.
	
	
Note 4:	 The Company had given loan of H 10 million 
in February 2021 which was to be repaid in 
one year from the disbursement date. The 
Company has entered into an addendum 
dated April 13, 2022 effective February 10, 
2022. As per the addendum, term of loan 
has been extended to four years from the 
disbursement date.
	
	
Note 5:	 The Company had given loan in financial 
year 2018-19 which was repayable on 
demand while the interest was payable 
on a quarterly basis. The Company has 
demanded the principal repayment from 
the party in FY 2020-21.
iii	
(e)	 Following loans which had fallen due during the year were extended. Further, no fresh loans were granted to same 
parties to settle the existing overdue loans/advances in nature of loan.
180
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 200
II.	
The statutory audit report on the financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2022 of Eatgood Technologies 
Private Limited (CIN U74900KA2015PTC080961), an associate company of the Holding Company has not been issued 
until the date of this report. Accordingly, no comments for the said associate have been included for the purpose of 
reporting under this clause.
	
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
	
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
	
Amitesh Dutta
	
Partner
Place: Gurugram	
Membership Number: 058507
Date: May 20, 2022	
UDIN: 22058507AJHXIU4207
181
Independent 
Auditor’s 
Report
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 201
Notes
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
3(a)
 5,616 
 2,992 
Right-of-use-assets
3(b)
 2,945 
 1,283 
Capital work-in-progress
3(c)
 102 
 208 
Goodwill
4
 443 
 467 
Other intangible assets
4
 135 
 171 
Intangible assets under development
3(d)
 18 
 28 
Financial assets
	
Investment in joint ventures
5(a)
 - 
 - 
	
Investment in associates
5(b)
 2,233 
 2,317 
	
Other investments
6(b)
 10,062 
 341 
	
Loans
6(c)
 1,362 
 - 
	
Other financial assets
6(d)
 42,131 
 3,871 
Current tax assets
 4,317 
 3,016 
Deferred tax assets
28
 70 
 35 
Other non-current assets 
8
 3,032 
 2,786 
Total Non-Current Assets
 72,466 
 17,515 
Current assets
Financial assets
	
Other investments
6(a), 6(b)
 - 
 1,472 
	
Trade receivables
7
 7,464 
 4,713 
	
Cash and cash equivalents
9(a)
 13,790 
 5,468 
	
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
9(b)
 38,230 
 23,296 
	
Loans
6(c)
 514 
 1,611 
	
Other financial assets
6(d)
 32,295 
 23,386 
Other current assets 
8
 15,157 
 14,052 
Total Current Assets
 107,450 
 73,998 
TOTAL ASSETS
 179,916 
 91,513 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
Share capital
10(a)
 649 
 605 
Other equity
10(b)
 140,867 
 64,743 
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
 141,516 
 65,348 
Non-controlling interests
 (221)
 (186)
Total Equity
 141,295 
 65,162 
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
	
Lease liabilities
3(b)
 1,822 
 427 
Deferred tax liabilities
28
 2 
 6 
Contract Liabilities
13(b)
 3,165 
 4,119 
Provisions
11
 307 
 247 
Total Non-Current Liabilities
 5,296 
 4,799 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
	
Borrowings
12(a)
 1 
 5,449 
	
Lease liabilities
3(b)
 392 
 244 
	
Trade payables
	
	
(a)	 Total Outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises 
12(b)
 229 
 56 
	
	
(b)	 Total Outstanding dues other than (a) above 
12(b)
 7,285 
 5,996 
	
Other financial liabilities
12(c)
 18,005 
 5,153 
Contract Liabilities
13(b)
 2,076 
 1,581 
Other current liabilities 
13(a)
 4,514 
 2,643 
Provisions
11
 823 
 430 
Total Current Liabilities
 33,325 
 21,552 
Total Liabilities
 38,621 
 26,351 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
 179,916 
 91,513 
Consolidated Balance Sheet  
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
The above Consolidated Balance Sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Consolidated Balance Sheet referred to in our report of even date.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of
Firm registration number: 012754N/ N500016	
One 97 Communications Limited
Amitesh Dutta	
Vijay Shekhar Sharma	
Madhur Deora 
Partner	
Chairman, Managing Director and CEO	
Chief Financial Officer 
Membership No: 058507	
DIN No. 00466521
Place: Gurugram	
Place: New Delhi	
Place: Mumbai 
Date: May 20, 2022	
Date: May 20, 2022	
Date: May 20, 2022 
	
Amit Khera
	
Company Secretary
	
Place: Noida
	
Date: May 20, 2022
182
Consolidated Balance Sheet | 
Consolidated Statement 
of Profit and Loss
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 202
The above Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss referred to in our report of even date.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of
Firm registration number: 012754N/ N500016	
One 97 Communications Limited
Amitesh Dutta	
Vijay Shekhar Sharma	
Madhur Deora 
Partner	
Chairman, Managing Director and CEO	
Chief Financial Officer 
Membership No: 058507	
DIN No. 00466521
Place: Gurugram	
Place: New Delhi	
Place: Mumbai 
Date: May 20, 2022	
Date: May 20, 2022	
Date: May 20, 2022 
	
Amit Khera
	
Company Secretary
	
Place: Noida
	
Date: May 20, 2022
Notes
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2021
Income
Revenue from operations
14
 49,742 
 28,024 
Other income 
15
 2,901 
 3,844 
Total income
 52,643 
 31,868 
Expenses
Payment processing charges
 27,538 
 19,168 
Marketing and promotional expenses
 8,554 
 5,325 
Employee benefits expense
16
 24,319 
 11,849 
Software, cloud and data centre expenses
 4,999 
 3,498 
Depreciation and amortization expense
17
 2,473 
 1,785 
Finance costs
18
 394 
 348 
Other expenses 
19
 7,734 
 5,857 
Total expenses
 76,011 
 47,830 
Loss before share of profit / (loss) of associates / joint ventures, 
exceptional items and tax
 (23,368)
 (15,962)
Share of profit/ (loss) of associates / joint ventures
24
 (459)
 (740)
Loss before exceptional items and tax
 (23,827)
 (16,702)
Exceptional items
20
 (24)
 (281)
Loss before tax
 (23,851)
 (16,983)
Income Tax expense
Current tax
28
 151 
 34 
Deferred tax expense/(credit)
28
 (38)
 (7)
Total Tax expense
 113 
 27 
Loss for the year
 (23,964)
 (17,010)
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent years
	
Re-measurement gains/ (losses) on defined benefit plans
27
 (21)
 (17)
	
Changes in fair value of equity instruments at FVTOCI
 9,376 
 (53)
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent years
	
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations
 194 
 40 
Total Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) for the year
 9,549 
 (30)
Total Comprehensive Income/ (Loss) for the year
 (14,415)
 (17,040)
Loss for the year
Attributable to:
	
Owners of the parent
 (23,929)
 (16,961)
	
Non-controlling interests
 (35)
 (49)
23,964
(17,010)
Other comprehensive income for the year
Attributable to:
	
Owners of the parent
 9,549 
 (30)
	
Non-controlling interests
 * 
 * 
 9,549 
 (30)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
Attributable to:
	
Owners of the parent
 (14,380)
 (16,991)
	
Non-controlling interests
 (35)
 (49)
 (14,415)
 (17,040)
Earnings per share (J per share of J 1 each)
Basic
21
 (38)
 (28)
Diluted
21
 (38)
 (28)
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss  
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
183
Consolidated Balance Sheet | 
Consolidated Statement 
of Profit and Loss
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 203
Equity shares - issued, subscribed and fully paid
No. of Shares
Amount
At April 1, 2020#
 60,187,655 
 604 
Shares issued during the year##
 29,979 
 * 
Shares issued during the year - ESOP
 42,379 
 * 
At March 31, 2021#
 60,260,013 
 605 
Shares issued during the year##
 38,646,058 
 39 
Shares issued during the year - ESOP
 4,627,616 
 5 
Adjustment for Sub-Division of Equity Shares**
 543,217,887 
 - 
Impact on derecognition of trust
 1,809,840 
 - 
At March 31, 2022
 648,561,414 
 649 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Other Equity
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
a) Equity Share Capital
b) Other equity
# Net of treasury shares, March 31, 2021: 222,391 and April 1, 2020: 247,370 of face value of H 10 each, at nil cost through Paytm Associate Benefit Welfare Trust (formerly known as One97 Employee Welfare Trust)
## Shares issued during the year includes 41,407 (March 31, 2021 : 24,979) shares of face value of H 10 each out of treasury shares
**Pursuant to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Holding Company held on June 30, 2021, each equity share of face value of H 10 per share was sub-divided into ten equity shares of 
face value of H 1 per share, with effect from record date, i.e., June 30, 2021.
Particulars
 Attributable to owners of the parent 
Non-
controlling 
interests
Total Other 
Equity
Share application 
money pending 
allotment
Reserves and Surplus
Other reserves
Total
Securities 
Premium
Retained 
Earnings
ESOP 
Reserve
FVTOCI 
FCTR#
As at April 1, 2020
 * 
 188,953 
 (112,012)
 3,552 
 20 
 (65)
 80,448 
 (140)
 80,308 
Loss for the year
 - 
 - 
 (16,961)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (16,961)
 (49)
 (17,010)
Other comprehensive income 
 - 
 - 
 (17)
 - 
 (53)
 40 
 (30)
 * 
 (30)
Total comprehensive income/(loss)
 - 
 - 
 (16,978)
 - 
 (53)
 40 
 (16,991)
 (49)
 (17,040)
Adjustment on forfeiture of ESOP
 - 
 - 
 206 
 (206)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Amount transferred to securities premium on exercise of ESOPs
 - 
 192 
 15 
 (219)
 - 
 - 
 (12)
 12 
 - 
Share based payment expenses
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,118 
 - 
 - 
 1,118 
 - 
 1,118 
Share based payment reserve on account of joint ventures
 - 
 - 
 - 
 19 
 - 
 - 
 19 
 - 
 19 
Share application money received (pending allotment)
 2 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2 
 - 
 2 
Amount received on issue of shares
 - 
 107 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 107 
 - 
 107 
Acquisition of Non-controlling interest
 - 
 - 
 (54)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (54)
 (9)
 (63)
Other adjustments (Refer note 10(b))
 - 
 - 
 106 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 106 
 - 
 106 
As at March 31, 2021
 2 
 189,252 
 (128,717)
 4,264 
 (33)
 (25)
 64,743 
 (186)
 64,557 
184
Consolidated 
Statement of Changes 
in Other Equity
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 204
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Other Equity
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
 Attributable to owners of the parent 
Non-
controlling 
interests
Total Other 
Equity
Share application 
money pending 
allotment
Reserves and Surplus
Other reserves
Total
Securities 
Premium
Retained 
Earnings
ESOP 
Reserve
FVTOCI 
FCTR#
Loss for the year
 - 
 - 
 (23,929)
 - 
 - 
 -  (23,929)
 (35)
 (23,964)
Other comprehensive income 
 - 
 - 
 (21)
 - 
 9,376 
 194 
 9,549 
 * 
 9,549 
Total comprehensive income/(loss)
 - 
 - 
 (23,950)
 - 
 9,376 
 194  (14,380)
 (35)
 (14,415)
Exercise of share options
 (2)
 2 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Adjustment on forfeiture of ESOP
 - 
 - 
 17 
 (17)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Adjustment on cancellation of ESOP
 - 
 - 
 106 
 (106)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Amount transferred to securities premium on exercise of ESOPs
 - 
 2,290 
 - 
 (2,290)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Share based payment expenses
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8,093 
 - 
 - 
 8,093 
 - 
 8,093 
Share based payment reserve on account of joint ventures
 - 
 - 
 - 
 78 
 - 
 - 
 78 
 - 
 78 
Share application money received (pending allotment)
 * 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 * 
 - 
 * 
Amount received on issue of shares
 - 
 83,023 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 83,023 
 - 
 83,023 
Amount utilised for share issue expenses
 - 
 (1,401)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,401)
 - 
 (1,401)
Other adjustments (Refer note 10(b))
 - 
 - 
 711 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 711 
 - 
 711 
As at March 31, 2022
 * 
 273,166 
 (151,833)
 10,022 
 9,343 
 169 
 140,867 
 (221)
 140,646 
 *Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group 
 # Foreign currency translation reserve
The above Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity referred to in our report of even date.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of
Firm registration number: 012754N/ N500016	
One 97 Communications Limited
Amitesh Dutta	
Vijay Shekhar Sharma	
Madhur Deora 
Partner	
Chairman, Managing Director and CEO	
Chief Financial Officer 
Membership No: 058507	
DIN No. 00466521
Place: Gurugram	
Place: New Delhi	
Place: Mumbai 
Date: May 20, 2022	
Date: May 20, 2022	
Date: May 20, 2022 
	
Amit Khera
	
Company Secretary
	
Place: Noida
	
Date: May 20, 2022
185
Consolidated 
Statement of Changes 
in Other Equity
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 205
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2021
Cash flow from operating activities:
Loss before tax
 (23,851)
 (16,983)
	
Depreciation and amortization expense
17
 2,473 
 1,785 
	
Interest income	
15
 (2,518)
 (2,229)
	
Interest Income on unwinding of discount - financial assets 
measured at amortized cost	
15
 (92)
 (218)
	
Interest on borrowing at amortized cost
18
 294 
 216 
	
Interest and finance charges on lease liabilities
18
 86 
 123 
	
Gain on lease termination
 (3)
 (50)
	
Stock acquisition rights (PayPay Corporation) 
 - 
 (221)
	
Trade receivables / advances written off
19
 391 
 67 
	
Provision for advances
19
 62 
 19 
	
Loss allowance for financial assets
19
 432 
 428 
	
(Gain) / loss on sale of investment in associates and subsidiaries
20
 - 
 (19)
	
Liabilities no longer required written back
15
 (19)
 (30)
	
Provision for impairment of investments in associates
20
 - 
 300 
	
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets written off 
19
 11 
 3 
	
Impairment of goodwill 	
20
 24 
 - 
	
Share based payment expenses	
16
 8,093 
 1,125 
	
Provision for employee incentive
 15 
 67 
	
Share of result of associates/ joint ventures
24
 459 
 740 
	
Fair value gain on financial instruments measured at FVTPL (net)
15
 (215)
 (899)
	
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (net)
15
 (7)
 (18)
Operating loss before working capital changes
 (14,365)
 (15,794)
Working capital adjustments:
	
Increase/(decrease) in trade payables
 1,481 
 (33)
	
Increase/(decrease) in provisions
 434 
 (85)
	
Increase /(decrease) in other current liabilities and contract liabilities
 1,412 
 (273)
	
Increase/(decrease) in other financial liabilities
 13,338 
 2,669 
	
(Increase)/decrease in trade receivables
 (3,192)
 (67)
	
(Increase)/decrease in other financial assets
 (9,187)
 (6,384)
	
(Increase)/decrease in other current and non-current assets
 (805)
 (2,729)
Cash generated from/(used in) operations
 (10,884)
 (22,696)
Tax paid, net of refunds
 (1,479)
 1,871 
Net cash inflow / (outflow) from operating activities (A)
 (12,363)
 (20,825)
Cash flow from/(used in) investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 (5,071)
 (1,927)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 
 27 
 56 
Investment in fixed and other deposits with banks
 (96,322)
 (21,534)
Maturity of bank deposits
 43,206 
 10,419 
Proceeds from repayment of inter corporate loans
 908 
 5 
Inter corporate loans given
 (1,653)
 (1,608)
Investments in joint ventures and associates
 - 
 (87)
Proceeds from sale of non-current investments
 13 
 1,036 
Payment for purchase of non-current investments
 (261)
 - 
Proceeds from sale of current investments
 85,696 
 99,456 
Payment for purchase of current investments
 (84,204)
 (67,468)
Interest received
 2,775 
 950 
Net cash inflow / (outflow) from investing activities (B)
 (54,886)
 19,298 
186
Consolidated 
Statement of 
Cash Flows
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 206
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2021
Cash flow from/(used in) financing activities
Proceeds from issue of shares (including security premium)
 83,067 
 107 
Share issue expenses
 (1,401)
 - 
Share application money received during the year (pending 
allotment)
 * 
 2 
Acquisition of non controlling interests
37
 - 
 (63)
Repayment of term loan
 - 
 (729)
Repayment of other borrowings
 - 
 (6)
Net change in working capital demand loan 
 (435)
 (847)
Interest paid
 (380)
 (339)
Principal elements of lease payments
 (316)
 (346)
Net cash inflow / (outflow) from financing activities (C )
 80,535 
 (2,221)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
 13,286 
 (3,748)
Cash and cash equivalent at the beginning of the year
 454 
 4,162 
Effect of exchange differences on restatement of foreign currency 
cash and cash equivalents
 49 
 40 
Cash and cash equivalent at the end of the year
 13,789 
 454 
Cash and cash equivalents as per above comprises of following
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Cash on hand 
 * 
 1 
Balance with banks 
	
- On current accounts 
 12,742 
 2,606 
	
- Deposits with original maturity of less than 3 months 
 1,048 
 2,861 
Cash and cash equivalents 
 13,790 
 5,468 
Bank overdraft# 
 (1)
 (5,014)
Cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of statement of cash flows
 13,789 
 454 
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
For non-cash additions and deletions in Right-of-use-assets and financing activities, refer note 3(b) and 12(a).	
#Bank borrowings are generally considered to be financing activities. However, bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand and form an integral 
part of an entity’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents.
The above Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows referred to in our report of even date.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of
Firm registration number: 012754N/ N500016	
One 97 Communications Limited
Amitesh Dutta	
Vijay Shekhar Sharma	
Madhur Deora 
Partner	
Chairman, Managing Director and CEO	
Chief Financial Officer 
Membership No: 058507	
DIN No. 00466521
Place: Gurugram	
Place: New Delhi	
Place: Mumbai 
Date: May 20, 2022	
Date: May 20, 2022	
Date: May 20, 2022 
	
Amit Khera
	
Company Secretary
	
Place: Noida
	
Date: May 20, 2022
187
Consolidated 
Statement of 
Cash Flows
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 207
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Balance Sheet (extract)
March 31, 2021
(as previously 
reported)
Increase/
(Decrease)
March 31, 2021
(Restated)
Loans (non-current)
1,258
(1,258)
-
Loans (current)
2,564
(953)
1,611
Other financial assets (non-current)
2,613
1,258
3,871
Other financial assets (current)
23,753
(367)
23,386
Trade Receivables
3,393
1,320
4,713
1.	 Corporate information
	
These Consolidated Financial Statements (“Consolidated 
Financial Statements”) comprise the financial statements 
of One 97 Communications Limited (“hereinafter referred 
to as the Holding Company”) and its subsidiaries, (the 
Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred 
to as “the Group”), its joint ventures and associate 
companies for the year ended March 31, 2022.
	
One 97 Communications Limited is a public company 
domiciled in India and is incorporated under the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”). The 
registered office of the Holding Company is located 
at 1st Floor, Devika Tower, Nehru Place, New Delhi - 
110019. The principal place of business of the Group is 
in India. The equity shares of the Holding Company are 
listed on the National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
(“NSE”) and the BSE Limited (“BSE”) in India.
	
The Group is in the business of providing a) payment 
and 
financial 
services 
which 
primarily 
includes 
payment facilitator services, facilitation of consumer 
and merchant lending to consumers and merchants, 
wealth management etc. b) commerce and cloud 
services which primarily consists of aggregator for 
digital products, ticketing business, providing voice 
and messaging platforms to the telecom operators and 
enterprise customers and other businesses, etc.
	
These 
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements 
were 
authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of 
the Board of Directors on May 20, 2022.
2.	 Significant accounting policies
2.1	Basis of preparation
	
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group 
have been prepared in accordance with Indian 
Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’) prescribed under 
Section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 and other relevant 
provisions of the Act as amended from time to time.
	
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been 
prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain 
financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value 
(refer accounting policies on financial instruments and 
Share-based payments).
	
Accounting policies have been consistently applied 
except where a newly issued accounting standard is 
initially adopted or a revision to an existing accounting 
standard requires a change in the accounting policy 
hitherto in use.
	
The Group has applied the following amendments for 
the first time for year commencing from April 1, 2021:
	
•	
Interest rate benchmark reform – amendments 
to Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments, Ind AS 107, 
Financial Instruments: Disclosures, Ind AS 104, 
Insurance Contracts and Ind AS 116, Leases
	
•	
Extension of COVID-19 related concessions – 
amendments to Ind AS 116
	
The amendments listed above did not have any impact 
on the amounts recognised in prior periods and are 
not expected to significantly affect the current or  
future periods.
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) through a 
notification dated March 24, 2021, amended Division 
II of Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013. These 
amendments are applicable for the reporting year 
beginning on or after April 1, 2021. Pursuant to these 
amendment, the comparative figures as disclosed in 
these Consolidated Financial Statements have been 
regrouped/reclassified, wherever necessary, to make 
them comparable to current year figures. The impact of 
such classifications is summarised below:
188
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 208
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Title 
Key requirements
Ind AS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment
Proceeds before intended use of property, plant and equipment:
The amendment clarifies that an entity shall deduct from the cost of an 
item of property, plant and equipment any proceeds received from selling 
items produced while the entity is preparing the asset for its intended use 
(for example, the proceeds from selling samples produced when testing a 
machine to see if it is functioning properly).
Ind AS 37, Provisions, Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets
Onerous Contracts – Cost of fulfilling a contract:
The amendment explains that the cost of fulfilling a contract comprises: 
the incremental costs of fulfilling that contract and an allocation of other 
costs that relate directly to fulfilling contracts.
Ind AS 103, Business combinations
References to the conceptual framework:
The amendment adds a new exception in Ind AS 103 for liabilities and 
contingent liabilities.
Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments
Fees included in the 10% test for derecognition of financial liabilities:
The amendment clarifies which fees an entity includes when it applies the 
‘10%’ test in assessing whether to derecognise a financial liability. An entity 
includes only fees paid or received between the entity (the borrower) 
and the lender, including fees paid or received by either the entity or the 
lender on the other’s behalf.
Ind AS 101, First time adoption
Subsidiary as a first-time adopter:
Simplifies the application of Ind AS 101 by a subsidiary that becomes 
a first-time adopter after its parent in relation to the measurement of 
cumulative translation differences.
Ind AS 41, Agriculture
Taxation in fair value measurements:
The amendment removes the requirement in Ind AS 41 for entities to 
exclude cash flows for taxation when measuring fair value. This aligns the 
fair value measurement in Ind AS 41 with the requirements of Ind AS 113, 
Fair Value Measurement.
	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has vide notification dated March 23, 2022 notified Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Amendment Rules, 2022 which amends certain accounting standards, and are effective form April 1, 2022. 
Below is a summary of such amendments:
	
These amendments are not expected to have a material 
impact on the Group in the current or future reporting 
periods and on foreseeable future transactions.
	
The Code on Social Security,2020 (‘Code’) relating 
to employee benefits during employment and post 
employment benefits received Presidential assent in 
September 2020. The Code has been published in the 
Gazette of India. However,the date on which the Code 
will come into effect has not been notified.The Group 
will assess the impact of the Code when it comes into 
effect and will record any related impact in the period 
the Code becomes effective.
	
All the amounts included in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements are presented in Indian Rupees (‘Rupees’ or 
‘Rs.’ or ‘INR’) and are rounded to the nearest millions, 
except per share data and unless stated otherwise.
 
Impact of COVID-19
	
COVID-19 continues to spread across globe and India. 
This has impact on all local and global economic 
activities. Government of India has taken series of 
measures to contain spread of virus and limit economic 
impact on corporates and individuals. 
	
The Group has considered the possible effects that may 
result from COVID-19, on the carrying amount of the 
receivables, investments, goodwill etc. While making 
the assessment the Group has taken cognizance of 
internal and external information up to the date of 
approval of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The Group based on current estimates expects the 
carrying amount of the above assets will be recovered.
189
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 209
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
	
Management believes that it has taken into account 
all the possible impact of known events arising 
from COVID-19 pandemic in the preparation of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. However, the 
impact assessment of COVID-19 is a continuing process 
given the uncertainties associated with its nature 
and duration. The Group will continue to monitor any 
material changes to the future economic conditions.
2.2	Business Combination and Goodwill
	
Business combinations (other than those under 
common control) are accounted for using the acquisition 
method under Ind AS 103. The cost of an acquisition 
is measured as the aggregate of the consideration 
transferred measured at acquisition date fair value. 
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
	
At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired 
and the liabilities assumed are recognised at their 
acquisition date fair values. However, the following 
assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination 
are measured at the basis indicated below: 
	
•	
The assets or liabilities related to employee benefit 
arrangements are recognised and measured in 
accordance with Ind AS 19 Employee Benefits.
	
•	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized 
and measured in accordance with Ind AS 12 
Income Taxes.
	
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the 
financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate 
classification and designation in accordance with 
the contractual terms, economic circumstances and 
pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date. The 
consideration transferred by the acquirer is recognized 
at fair value at the acquisition date. Deferred 
consideration is classified as a liability under Ind AS 109 
and is measured at amortized cost.
	
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of 
the aggregate of the consideration transferred over the 
net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost 
less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is 
tested for impairment annually or more frequently if 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that they 
might be impaired.
	
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired 
in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, 
allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units 
that are expected to benefit from the combination, 
irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the 
acquiree are assigned to those units.
	
A cash generating unit to which goodwill has been 
allocated is tested for impairment annually, or more 
frequently when there is an indication that the unit 
may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the 
cash generating unit is less than its carrying amount, 
the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the 
carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit 
and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata based 
on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. Any 
impairment loss for goodwill is recognised in statement 
of profit or loss. An impairment loss recognised for 
goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods.
2.3	Basis of consolidation
	
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) 
over which the Group has Control. The determination 
of control for the purpose of consolidation is done as 
per Ind AS 110. Control is achieved when the Group 
is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the investee and has the ability to 
affect those returns through its power over the investee.
	
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if and only 
if the Group has:
	
a)	
Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that 
give it the current ability to direct the relevant 
activities of the investee)
	
b)	 Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the investee, and
	
c)	
The ability to use its power over the investee to 
affect its returns
	
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting 
rights result in control. To support this presumption and 
when the Group has less than a majority of the voting 
or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all 
relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether 
it has power over an investee, including:
	
a)	
The contractual arrangement with the other vote 
holders of the investee
	
b)	 Rights arising from other contractual arrangements
	
c)	
The Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights
	
d)	 The size of the group’s holding of voting rights 
relative to the size and dispersion of the holdings 
of the other voting rights holders
	
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an 
investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there 
are changes to one or more of the three elements of 
control. Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when 
190
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 210
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and 
ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary. 
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary 
acquired or disposed of during the year are included 
in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the date 
the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases 
to control the subsidiary. 
	
Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared using 
uniform accounting policies for like transactions and 
other events in similar circumstances. If a member of 
the group uses accounting policies other than those 
adopted in the Consolidated Financial Statements for 
like transactions and events in similar circumstances, 
appropriate adjustments are made to that group 
member’s Financial Statements in preparing the 
Consolidated Financial Statements to ensure conformity 
with the group’s accounting policies.
	
The Financial Statements of all entities used for 
the purpose of consolidation are drawn up to same 
reporting date as that of the Group. When the end of the 
reporting period of the parent is different from that of 
a subsidiary, the subsidiary prepares, for consolidation 
purposes, additional financial information as of the same 
date as the consolidated financial statements of the 
parent to enable the parent to consolidate the financial 
information of the subsidiary, unless it is impracticable 
to do so.
 
Consolidation procedures:
	
(a)	 Combine like items of assets, liabilities, equity, 
income, expenses and cash flows of the parent with 
those of its subsidiaries. For this purpose, income 
and expenses of the subsidiary are based on the 
amounts of the assets and liabilities recognised 
in the Consolidated Financial Statements at the 
acquisition date.
	
(b)	 Offset (eliminate) the carrying amount of the 
parent’s investment in each subsidiary and the 
parent’s portion of equity of each subsidiary. 
	
(c)	 Eliminate in full intragroup assets and liabilities, 
equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to 
transactions between entities of the group (profits 
or losses resulting from intragroup transactions 
that are recognised in Fixed assets, such as 
inventory and fixed assets, are eliminated in full). 
Intragroup losses may indicate an impairment 
that requires recognition in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. Ind AS12 Income Taxes 
applies to temporary differences that arise from 
the elimination of profits and losses resulting from 
intragroup transactions.
	
Profit 
or 
loss 
and 
each 
component 
of 
other 
comprehensive income (OCI) are attributed to the 
equity holders of the parent of the Group and to the 
non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-
controlling interests having a deficit balance. When 
necessary, adjustments are made to the financial 
statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting 
policies into line with the Group’s accounting policies. 
All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, 
expenses and cash flows relating to transactions 
between members of the Group are eliminated in full 
on consolidation. The Group measures non-controlling 
interests at their proportion of the fair value of the 
identifiable net assets. 
2.4	Investment in associates and joint ventures
	
An associate is an entity over which the Group has 
significant influence. Significant influence is the 
power to participate in the financial and operating 
policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or  
joint control.
	
The considerations made in determining whether 
significant influence is similar to those necessary to 
determine control over the Subsidiaries.
	
The Group’s investments in its associate are accounted for 
using the equity method. Under the equity method, the 
investment in an associate is initially recognised at cost. 
	
Interests in joint ventures are accounted for using the 
equity method, after initially being recognised at cost in 
the consolidated balance sheet. 
	
The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to 	
recognise changes in the Group’s share of net assets 
of the associate or joint venture since the acquisition 
date. Goodwill relating to the associate or joint venture 
is included in the carrying amount of the investment 
and is not tested for impairment individually.
	
The consolidated statement of profit and loss reflects 
the Group’s share of the results of operations of the 
associate or joint venture. Any change in OCI of the 
associate or joint venture is presented as part of the 
Group’s OCI. In addition, when there has been a change 
recognised directly in the equity of the associate or 
joint venture, the Group recognises its share of any 
changes, when applicable, in the statement of changes 
in equity. Unrealised gains and losses resulting from 
transactions between the Group and the associate or 
joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest 
in the associate or joint venture.
	
If an entity’s share of losses of an associate or joint 
venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or 
191
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 211
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
joint venture (which includes any long term interest that, 
in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in 
the associate), the entity discontinues recognising its 
share of further losses. Additional losses are recognised 
only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or 
constructive obligations or made payments on behalf 
of the associate or joint venture. If the associate or 
joint venture subsequently reports profits, the entity 
resumes recognising its share of those profits only 
after its share of the profits equals the share of losses  
not recognised.
	
The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit or loss of 
an associate or joint venture is shown on the face of the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss. The financial 
statements of the associate are prepared for the 
same reporting period as the Group. When necessary, 
adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies 
in line with those of the Group. 
	
After application of the equity method, the Group 
determines whether it is necessary to recognise an 
impairment loss on its investment in its associate or joint 
venture. At each reporting date, the Group determines 
whether there is objective evidence that the investment 
in the associate or joint venture is impaired.
	
 If there is such evidence, the Group calculates the 
amount of impairment as the difference between the 
recoverable amount of the associate or joint venture 
and its carrying value, and then recognises the loss 
as ‘exceptional items’ in the consolidated statement of 
profit or loss.
	
Upon loss of significant influence over the associate, 
the Group measures and recognises any retained 
investment at its fair value. Any difference between 
the carrying amount of the associate upon loss of 
significant influence and the fair value of the retained 
investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in 
consolidated statement of profit or loss.
2.5	Summary of significant accounting policies
 
a. 
Current versus non-current classification
	
	
The Group presents assets and liabilities in the 
consolidated balance sheet based on current / 
non-current classification. 
	
	
An asset is classified as current when it is expected 
to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed 
in normal operating cycle, held primarily for the 
purpose of trading, expected to be realised within 
twelve months after the reporting period, or cash 
or cash equivalent unless restricted from being 
exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least 
twelve months after the reporting period. All other 
assets are classified as non-current.
	
	
A liability is classified as current when it is expected 
to be settled in normal operating cycle, it is held 
primarily for the purpose of trading, it is due to be 
settled within twelve months after the reporting 
period, or there is no unconditional right to defer 
the settlement of the liability for at least twelve 
months after the reporting period. The Group 
classifies all other liabilities as non-current.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities, are classified as 
non-current assets and liabilities.
	
	
The operating cycle is the time between the 
acquisition of assets for processing and their 
realisation in cash and cash equivalents. The Group 
has identified twelve months as its operating cycle. 
 
b. 
Foreign currencies
	
	
Functional and presentation currency
	
	
Items included in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Group are measured using the 
currency of the primary economic environment 
in which it operates i.e. the “functional currency”. 
The Group’s consolidated financial statements 
are presented in INR, which is also the Holding 
Company’s functional currency.
	
	
Transactions and balances
	
	
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially 
recorded by the Group’s entities at their respective 
functional currency at exchange rates prevailing 
at 
the 
date 
the 
transaction 
first 
qualifies  
for recognition.
	
	
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies are translated at the functional 
currency spot rates of exchange at the reporting 
date. Exchange differences arising on settlement 
or translation of monetary items are recognised in 
profit or loss.
	
	
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of 
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated 
using the exchange rates at the dates of the  
initial transactions. 
	
	
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a 
foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rates at the date when the fair value is determined. 
The gain or loss arising on translation of non-
monetary items measured at fair value is treated 
in line with the recognition of the gain or loss on 
192
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 212
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
the change in fair value of the item (i.e., translation 
differences on items whose fair value gain or loss is 
recognised in other comprehensive income (“OCI”) 
or consolidated statement of profit and loss, are 
also recognised in OCI or consolidated statement 
of profit and loss, respectively).
 
 
Group companies
	
	
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign 
operations are translated into INR at the rate of 
exchange prevailing at the reporting date and their 
consolidated statements of profit and loss are 
translated at exchange rates prevailing at the dates 
of the transactions. The exchange differences arising 
on translation for consolidation are recognised in OCI. 
On disposal of a foreign operation, the component 
of OCI relating to that particular foreign operation is 
recognised in profit or loss.
 
c. 
Fair value measurement
	
	
The Group measures certain financial instruments 
(e.g. investments) at fair value at each balance 
sheet date. 
	
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. 
	
	
The fair value measurement is based on the 
presumption that the transaction to sell the 
asset or transfer the liabilities takes place either 
in the principal market for the asset or liability 
or in absence of principal market, in the most 
advantageous market for the asset or liability.
	
	
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset 
takes into account a market participant’s ability to 
generate economic benefits by using the asset in 
its highest and best use or by selling it to another 
market participant that would use the asset in its 
highest and best use.
	
	
The Group uses valuation techniques that are 
appropriate in the circumstances and for which 
sufficient data are available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs 
and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
	
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is 
measured or disclosed in the consolidated financial 
statements are categorised within the fair value 
hierarchy, described as follows, based on the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole:
	
	
Level 1- Quoted (Unadjusted) marked prices in the 
active markets for identical assets or liabilities
	
	
Level 2- Valuation techniques for which the lowest 
level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement is directly or indirectly observable
	
	
Level 3- Valuation techniques for which the lowest 
level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement is unobservable.
	
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the 
consolidated financial statements on a recurring 
basis, the Group determines whether transfers 
have occurred between levels in the hierarchy 
by re-assessing categorisation (based on the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair 
value measurement as a whole) at the end of each 
reporting period.
	
	
At each reporting date, the management analyses 
the movements in the values of assets and 
liabilities which are required to be re-measured 
or re-assessed as per the Group’s accounting 
policies. For this analysis, the management or 
its expert verifies the major inputs applied in the 
latest valuation by agreeing the information in 
the valuation computation to contracts and other 
relevant documents.
	
	
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group 
has determined classes of assets and liabilities on 
the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of 
the asset or liability and the level of the fair value 
hierarchy as explained above.
 
d. 
Revenue recognition
	
	
Revenue is measured based on the consideration 
specified in a contract with a customer net of 
variable consideration e.g. discounts, volume 
rebates, any payments made to a customer (unless 
the payment is for a distinct good or service 
received from the customer) and excludes amounts 
collected on behalf of third parties. The Group 
recognises revenue when it transfers control over 
a product or service to a customer. Revenue is only 
recognised to the extent that it is highly probable 
that a significant reversal will not occur.
	
	
The Group provides incentives to its users in various 
forms including cashbacks. Incentives which are 
consideration payable to the customer that are 
not in exchange for a distinct good or service are 
generally recognized as a reduction of revenue.
	
	
Where the Group acts as an agent for selling goods 
or services, only the commission income is included 
193
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 213
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
within revenue. The specific revenue recognition 
criteria described below must also be met before 
revenue is recognized. Typically, the Group has a 
right to payment before or at the point that services 
are delivered. Cash received before the services 
are delivered is recognised as a contract liability. 
The amount of consideration does not contain a 
significant financing component as payment terms 
are less than one year. 
 
 
Sale of services 
	
	
Revenue from services is recognized when the 
control in services is transferred as per the terms 
of the agreement with customer i.e. as and when 
services are rendered. Revenues are disclosed 
net of the Goods and Services Tax charged on 
such services. In terms of the contract, excess of 
revenue over the billed at the year-end is carried in 
the balance sheet as trade receivables where the 
amount is recoverable from the customer without 
any future performance obligation and the Group 
has unconditional right over such consideration 
(i.e. if only the passage of time is required before 
payment of such consideration is due). Cash 
received before the services are delivered is 
recognised as a contract liability.
 
 
Commission
	
	
The Group facilitates recharge of talk time, bill 
payments, availability of bus tickets and sale of deal 
coupons and earns commission for the respective 
services. 
Commission 
income 
is 
recognized 
when the control in services is transferred to the 
customer when the services have been provided 
by the Group.
 
 
Service fees from merchants
	
	
The Group earns service fee from merchants and 
recognizes such revenue when the control in 
services have been transferred by the Group i.e. 
as and when services have been provided by the 
Group. Such service fee is generally determined 
as a percentage of transaction value executed 
by the merchants. Amount received by the Group 
pending settlement are disclosed as payable to the 
merchants under other financial liabilities.
 
 
Revenue from broking activities
	
	
Revenue from broking activities, fees and delayed 
payment charges is recognized on the trade date 
of transaction (net of Goods & service tax (GST), 
securities transaction tax, stamp duties and other 
levies by SEBI and stock exchanges). Revenue 
from platform fees are received periodically but are 
recognized as earned on pro-rata basis over the 
term of the contract i.e. one year.
 
 
Government Grants
	
	
The Group recognises government grants only 
when there is reasonable assurance that the 
conditions attached to them will be complied with, 
and the grants will be received. Government grants 
related to revenue are recognized on a systematic 
basis in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and 
Loss as other operating revenue over the periods 
necessary to match them with the related costs, if 
any, which they are intended to compensate.
 
 
Interest income
	
	
For all debt instruments measured either at 
amortised cost or at fair value through other 
comprehensive income, interest income is recorded 
using the effective interest rate (EIR). EIR is the 
rate that exactly discounts the estimated future 
cash payments or receipts over the expected life 
of the financial instrument or a shorter period, 
where appropriate, to the gross carrying amount 
of the financial asset or to the amortised cost of 
a financial liability. When calculating the effective 
interest rate, the Group estimates the expected 
cash flows by considering all the contractual terms 
of the financial instrument but does not consider 
the expected credit losses. Interest income is 
included in other income in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss.
 
e. 
Taxes
 
 
Current income tax
	
	
Current income tax assets and liabilities are 
measured at the amount expected to be recovered 
from or paid to the taxation authorities. The tax 
rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are 
those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at 
the reporting date in the countries where the Group 
operates and generates taxable income.
	
	
Current income tax relating to items recognised 
outside consolidated statement of profit and loss is 
recognised either in other comprehensive income or in 
equity. Current tax items are recognised in correlation 
to the underlying transaction either in OCI or directly 
in equity. Management periodically evaluates 
positions taken in the tax returns with respect to 
situations in which applicable tax regulations are 
subject to interpretation and considers whether 
194
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 214
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
it is probable that a taxation authority will accept 
an uncertain tax treatment. The Group measures 
its tax balances either based on the most likely 
amount or the expected value, depending on 
which method provides a better prediction of the 
resolution of the uncertainty.
 
 
Deferred tax
	
	
Deferred tax is provided using the liability method 
on temporary differences between the tax bases of 
assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for 
financial reporting purposes at the reporting date. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences, except:
	
	
•	
When the deferred tax liability arises from the 
initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or 
liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and, at the time of the transaction, 
affects neither the accounting profit nor 
taxable profit or loss.
	
	
•	
In respect of taxable temporary differences 
associated with investments in subsidiaries, 
associates and interests in joint ventures, when 
the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable 
that the temporary differences will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future.
	
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences, the carry forward of unused 
tax credits and any unused tax losses. Deferred 
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences, 
and the carry forward of unused tax credits and 
unused tax losses can be utilised, The carrying 
amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
reporting date and reduced to the extent that it 
is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit 
will be available to allow all or part of the deferred 
tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax 
assets are re-assessed at each reporting date and 
are recognised to the extent that it has become 
probable that future taxable profits will allow the 
deferred tax asset to be recovered.
	
	
Deferred tax assets are not recognised for temporary 
differences between the carrying amount and tax 
bases of investments in subsidiaries, associates 
and interest in joint arrangements where it is not 
probable that the differences will reverse in the 
foreseeable future and taxable profit will not be 
available against which the temporary difference 
can be utilised.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the 
tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when 
the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based 
on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted at the reporting date.
	
	
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside 
consolidated statement of profit and loss is 
recognised either in other comprehensive income 
or in equity. Deferred tax items are recognised in 
correlation to the underlying transaction either in 
OCI or directly in equity.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are 
offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off 
current tax assets against current tax liabilities and 
the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity 
and the same taxation authority.
 
 
Minimum alternate tax
	
	
Credit of MAT is recognised as deferred tax asset 
only when it is probable that taxable profit will be 
available against which the credit can be utilised. In 
the year in which the MAT credit becomes eligible 
to be recognised as an asset, the said asset is 
created by way of a credit to the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss account. The Group 
reviews the same at each balance sheet date and 
writes down the carrying amount of MAT credit 
entitlement to the extent it is no longer probable 
that the Group will pay normal income tax during 
the specified period.
 
 
Taxes paid on acquisition of assets or on incurring 
expenses
	
	
Assets are recognised net of the amount of GST 
paid, except when the tax incurred on a purchase 
of assets is not recoverable from the taxation 
authority, in which case, the tax paid is recognised 
as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset.
	
	
Expenses are recognised net of the amount of GST 
paid, except when the tax incurred on a purchase 
of services is not recoverable from the taxation 
authority, in which case, the tax paid is expensed 
off in statement of profit and loss.
	
	
The net amount of tax recoverable from, or payable 
to, the taxation authority is included as part of 
other current/ non- current assets or other current 
liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
195
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 215
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
 
f. 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued 
operations
	
	
The Group classifies non-current assets and 
disposal groups as held for sale if their carrying 
amounts will be recovered principally through a 
sale rather than through continuing use. Actions 
required to complete the sale should indicate that 
it is unlikely that significant changes to the sale 
will be made or that the decision to sell will be 
withdrawn. Management must be committed to 
the sale expected within one year from the date  
of classification.
	
	
For these purposes, sale transactions include 
exchanges of non-current assets for other 
non-current assets when the exchange has 
commercial substance. The criteria for held for sale 
classification is regarded met only when the assets 
or disposal group is available for immediate sale in 
its present condition, subject only to terms that are 
usual and customary for sales of such assets (or 
disposal groups), its sale is highly probable; and it 
will genuinely be sold, not abandoned. The Group 
treats sale of the asset or disposal group to be 
highly probable when:
	
	
•	
The appropriate level of management is 
committed to a plan to sell the asset (or 
disposal group),
	
	
•	
An active programme to locate a buyer and 
complete the plan has been initiated (if 
applicable),
	
	
•	
The asset (or disposal group) is being actively 
marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable 
in relation to its current fair value,
	
	
•	
The sale is expected to qualify for recognition 
as a completed sale within one year from the 
date of classification , and
	
	
•	
Actions required to complete the plan indicate 
that it is unlikely that significant changes to 
the plan will be made or that the plan will be 
withdrawn.
	
	
Non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups 
are measured at the lower of their carrying amount 
and the fair value less costs to sell. Assets and 
liabilities classified as held for sale are presented 
separately in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
	
	
Property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets once classified as held for sale are not 
depreciated or amortised.
	
	
A disposal group qualifies as discontinued operation 
if it is a component of an entity that either has been 
disposed of, or is classified as held for sale, and:
	
	
•	
Represents a separate major line of business 
or geographical area of operations or
	
	
•	
Is part of a single co-ordinated plan to 
dispose of a separate major line of business or 
geographical area of operations.
	
	
Discontinued operations are excluded from the 
results of continuing operations and are presented 
as a single amount as profit or loss after tax from 
discontinued 
operations 
in 
the 
consolidated 
statement of profit and loss.
 
g. 
Property, plant and equipment
	
	
Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost 
less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated 
impairment, if any. Property, plant and equipment 
is depreciated on a written down value basis to its 
residual value over its estimated useful life.
	
	
Cost directly attributable to acquisition are 
capitalised until the property, plant and equipment 
are ready for use, as intended by the management. 
	
	
Subsequent costs are capitalised on the carrying 
amount or recognised as a separate asset, as 
appropriate, only when future economic benefits 
associated with the item are probable to flow to 
the Group and cost of the item can be measured 
reliably. When significant parts of property, plant 
and equipment are required to be replaced at 
intervals, the Group depreciates them separately 
based on their specific useful lives. The carrying 
amount of any component accounted for as a 
separate asset is derecognised when replaced. 
All repair and maintenance are charged to 
consolidated statement of profit and loss during 
the reporting period in which they are incurred.
	
	
Advances paid towards the acquisition of property, 
plant and equipment outstanding at each balance 
sheet date is classified as capital advances under 
the non-current assets and the cost of assets not 
ready to use before such date are disclosed under 
‘Capital work in progress’.
	
	
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement 
of an item of property, plant and equipment is 
determined as the difference between the sales 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset 
and is recognised in the consolidated statement of 
profit and loss on the date of disposal or retirement.
196
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 216
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
	
	
Depreciation is provided using the written down 
value method and charged to consolidated 
statement of profit and loss as per the rates 
prescribed under schedule II of the Companies 
Act, 2013 except for technical evaluation done by 
the management’s expert for plant and machinery, 
given below:
Assets
Rate of Depreciation
(per annum)
Servers and networking 
equipment (Computers)
39.30%
Laptops and desktops 
(Computers)
63.16%
Office equipment
45.07%
Furniture and fittings
25.89%
Plant & Machinery
45.07% / 63.16%
Vehicles
31.23%
	
	
Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the 
shorter of their useful life or the lease term, unless 
the entity expects to use the assets beyond the 
lease term.
	
	
The residual values, useful lives and methods of 
depreciation of property, plant and equipment are 
reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted 
prospectively, if appropriate.
 
h. 
Intangible assets
	
	
Separately acquired intangible assets, such as 
software are measured initially at cost. Following 
initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at 
cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated 
impairment losses, if any. Internally generated 
intangible assets, excluding capitalized development 
costs, are not capitalized and expenditure is reflected 
in the consolidated statement of profit and loss in the 
year in which the expenditure is incurred. Intangible 
assets with finite useful lives are carried at cost and 
are amortised on a written down value basis over their 
estimated useful lives and charged to consolidated 
statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Software and licenses acquired are amortized at 
the rate of 40% per annum on written down value 
method. Other intangibles i.e Customer relationship, 
right to use brand and non- compete right acquired 
in business combination are amortised over their 
useful life on straight line basis, which is taken to 
be 5 years.
	
	
The amortization period and the amortization 
method are reviewed at least at each financial 
year end. Changes in the expected useful life or 
the expected pattern of consumption of future 
economic benefits embodied in the asset are 
considered to modify the amortisation period 
or method, as appropriate, and are treated as 
changes in accounting estimates. The amortisation 
expense on intangible assets is recognised in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss unless 
such expenditure forms part of carrying value of 
another asset.
	
	
Gains or losses arising from de-recognition of an 
intangible asset are measured as the difference 
between the net disposal proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset and are recognized in 
the consolidated statement of profit and loss when 
the asset is derecognized.
 
 
Research and development costs
	
	
Research 
costs 
are 
expensed 
as 
incurred. 
Development expenditure incurred on an individual 
project is recognized as an intangible asset when 
the Group can demonstrate all the following:
	
	
•	
The technical feasibility of completing the 
intangible asset so that it will be available for 
use or sale
	
	
•	
Its intention to complete the asset
	
	
•	
Its ability to use or sell the asset
	
	
•	
How the asset will generate future economic 
benefits
	
	
•	
The availability of adequate resources to 
complete the development and to use or sell 
the asset
	
	
•	
The ability to measure reliably the expenditure 
attributable to the intangible asset during 
development.
	
	
Following the initial recognition of the development 
expenditure as an asset, the cost model is applied 
requiring the asset to be carried at cost less any 
accumulated 
amortization 
and 
accumulated 
impairment losses. Amortization of the asset begins 
when development is complete and the asset is 
available for use. It is amortized on a straight line 
basis over the period of expected future benefit 
from the related project, i.e., the estimated useful 
life of one to five years. Amortization is recognized 
in the consolidated statement of profit and loss. 
During the period of development, the asset is 
tested for impairment annually.
197
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 217
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
 
i. 
Borrowing costs
	
	
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the 
acquisition, construction or production of an asset 
that necessarily takes a substantial period of 
time to get ready for its intended use or sale are 
capitalised as part of the cost of the asset. All other 
borrowing costs are expensed in the period in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss in which 
they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and 
other costs that an entity incurs in connection with 
the borrowing of funds. 
 
j. 
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
	
For all non-financial assets, the Group assesses 
whether there are indicators of impairment. If such 
an indicator exists, the recoverable amount of the 
asset is estimated in order to determine the extent 
of the impairment loss, if any. Where the asset does 
not generate cash flows that are independent from 
other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable 
amount of the cash-generating unit (CGU) to which 
the asset belongs. 
	
	
The recoverable amount for an asset or CGU is the 
higher of its value in use and fair value less costs 
of disposal. If the recoverable amount of an asset 
or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying 
amount or CGU the asset is considered impaired 
and the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is 
reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment 
loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss. 
	
	
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows of the asset or CGU are discounted to their 
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset. In 
determining fair value less costs of disposal, recent 
market transactions are taken into account. If no 
such transactions can be identified, an appropriate 
valuation model is used. These calculations are 
corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share 
prices for publicly traded companies or other 
available fair value indicators.
	
	
The Group bases its impairment calculation on 
detailed budgets and forecast calculations. These 
budgets and forecast calculations generally cover 
a period of five years. For longer periods, a long-
term growth rate is calculated and applied to 
project future cash flows after the fifth year. To 
estimate cash flow projections beyond periods 
covered by the most recent budgets/forecasts, 
the Group extrapolates cash flow projections in 
the budget using a steady or declining growth rate 
for subsequent years, unless an increasing rate 
can be justified. In any case, this growth rate does 
not exceed the long-term average growth rate for 
the products, industries, or country or countries 
in which the entity operates, or for the market in 
which the asset is used.
	
	
An assessment is made at each reporting date 
to determine whether there is an indication that 
previously 
recognised 
impairment 
losses 
no 
longer exist or have decreased. If such indication 
exists, the Group estimates the asset’s or CGU’s 
recoverable amount. A previously recognised 
impairment loss is reversed only if there has been 
a change in the assumptions used to determine 
the asset’s or CGU’s recoverable amount since the 
last impairment loss was recognised. The reversal 
is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset 
does not exceed its recoverable amount, nor 
exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment 
loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. 
Such reversal is recognised in the consolidated 
statement of profit or loss. 
 
k. 
Provisions and contingencies
 
 
Provisions
	
	
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a 
present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result 
of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of 
resources embodying economic benefits will be 
required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the 
obligation. When the Group expects some or all of 
a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement 
is recognised as a separate asset, but only 
when the reimbursement is virtually certain. The 
expense relating to a provision is presented in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss net of 
any reimbursement. If the effect of the time value 
of money is material, provisions are discounted 
using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when 
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When 
discounting is used, the increase in the provision 
due to the passage of time is recognised as a 
finance cost.
 
 
Contingencies
	
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that 
arises from past events whose existence will be 
confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence 
of one or more uncertain future events beyond the 
control of the Group or a present obligation that 
198
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 218
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
is not recognized because it is not probable that 
an outflow of resources will be required to settle 
the obligation. A contingent liability also arises 
in extremely rare cases where there is a liability 
that cannot be recognized because it cannot be 
measured reliably. The Group does not recognize a 
contingent liability but discloses its existence in the 
consolidated financial Statements.
 
l. 
Retirement and other employee benefits
	
	
For defined benefit plans (gratuity), the liability 
or asset recognised in the balance sheet is the 
present value of the defined benefit obligation at 
the end of the reporting period less the fair value 
of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is 
calculated by independent actuaries using the 
projected unit credit method. 
	
	
The present value of the defined benefit obligation 
is determined by discounting the estimated future 
cash outflows by reference to market yields at the 
end of the reporting period on government bonds 
that have terms approximating to the terms of the 
related obligation.
	
	
The net interest cost is calculated by applying the 
discount rate to the net balance of the defined 
benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets. 
This cost is included in employee benefit expense 
in the consolidated statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Remeasurement gains and losses arising from 
experience adjustments and changes in actuarial 
assumptions are recognised in the period in which 
they occur, directly in other comprehensive income. 
They are included in retained earnings in the 
statement of changes in equity and in the balance 
sheet. Re-measurements are not reclassified to 
profit or loss in subsequent periods.
	
	
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation resulting from plan amendments or 
curtailments are recognised immediately in profit 
or loss as past service cost.
	
	
The Group’s contributions to defined contribution 
plans (provident fund) are recognized in profit or 
loss when the employee renders related service. 
The Group has no further obligations under these 
plans beyond its periodic contributions.
	
	
The Group provides for liability at year end on 
account of un-availed earned leave as per actuarial 
valuation using projected unit credit method.
	
	
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-
monetary benefits that are expected to be settled 
wholly within 12 months after the end of the period 
in which the employees render the related service 
are recognised in respect of employees’ services up 
to the end of the reporting period and are measured 
at the amounts expected to be paid when the 
liabilities are settled. The liabilities are presented 
as employee benefit payable under other financial 
liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
 
m. Share-based payments
 
 
i) 
Equity-settled transactions
	
	
	
Employees (including senior executives) of 
the Group receive remuneration in the form of 
share-based payments, whereby employees 
render services as consideration for equity 
instruments (equity-settled transactions).
	
	
	
The cost of equity-settled transactions is 
determined by the fair value at the date 
when the grant is made using an appropriate 
valuation model.
	
	
	
That cost is recognised, together with a 
corresponding increase in Employee Stock 
Option Plan (ESOP) reserves in equity, over 
the period in which the performance and/or 
service conditions are fulfilled in employee 
benefits expense. The cumulative expense 
recognised for equity-settled transactions 
at each reporting date until the vesting date 
reflects the extent to which the vesting period 
has expired and the Group’s best estimate 
of the number of equity instruments that will 
ultimately vest. The consolidated statement 
of profit and loss expense or credit for a 
period represents the movement in cumulative 
expense recognised as at the beginning 
and end of that period and is recognised in 
employee benefits expense.
	
	
	
Performance conditions which are market 
conditions are taken into account when 
determining the grant date fair value of the 
awards. Service and non-market performance 
conditions are not taken into account when 
determining the grant date fair value of awards, 
but the likelihood of the conditions being met is 
assessed as part of the Group’s best estimate 
of the number of equity instruments that will 
ultimately vest.
	
	
	
No expense is recognised for awards that 
do not ultimately vest because non-market 
performance and/or service conditions have 
not been met.
199
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 219
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
	
	
	
When the terms of an equity-settled award are 
modified, the minimum expense recognised is 
the expense had the terms not been modified, 
if the original terms of the award are met. 
An additional expense is recognised for any 
modification that increases the total fair value 
of the share-based payment transaction, or 
is otherwise beneficial to the employee as 
measured at the date of modification. 
	
	
	
Where an award is cancelled by the entity or 
by the counterparty, any remaining element 
of the fair value of the award is expensed 
immediately through profit or loss.
	
	
	
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is 
reflected as additional share dilution in the 
computation of diluted earnings per share.
 
 
ii) 
Cash-settled transactions
	
	
	
For awards classified as cash settled share 
based transactions, the goods or services 
acquired are measured and the liability 
incurred, at the fair value of liability. Until the 
liability is settled, the fair value of the liability 
is re-measured at the end of each reporting 
period and at the date of settlement, with any 
changes in fair value recognised in consolidated 
statement of profit and loss for the period.
	
	
	
The 
cost 
of 
cash-settled 
transactions 
is determined by the fair value of equity 
instruments at each reporting date using an 
appropriate valuation model.
	
	
	
That cost is recognised, together with a 
corresponding increase in liability, over the 
period in which the performance and/or service 
conditions are fulfilled in employee benefits 
expense. The cumulative expense recognised 
for cash-settled transactions at each reporting 
date until the vesting date reflects the extent 
to which the vesting period has expired and 
the Group’s best estimate of the number of 
equity instruments that will ultimately vest. 
The consolidated statement of profit and loss 
expense or credit for a period represents the 
movement in cumulative expense recognised 
as at the beginning and end of that period and 
is recognised in employee benefits expense.
	
	
	
No expense is recognised for awards that 
do not ultimately vest because non-market 
performance and/or service conditions have 
not been met.
	
	
	
The Group has set up Paytm Associate Benefit 
Welfare Trust (formerly known as One 97 
Employee Welfare Trust) for administering 
certain 
types 
of 
share-based 
payment 
arrangements including awards given to 
employees of the outside group companies as 
well for awards of options of other companies 
given to its employees. The Group uses the 
Trust as a vehicle for distributing shares under 
the ESOP schemes. The Trust holds shares 
of the Group, for giving shares to employees. 
The Group treats the Trust as its extension and 
shares of the Group held by Trust are treated 
as treasury shares. Other assets held by the 
Trust are consolidated on a line-by-line basis 
with Group’s consolidated financial statements. 
Shares of other companies held by the Trust 
for distribution to its employees are separately 
disclosed under investments.
	
	
	
The Group has lost control over the Trust 
and accordingly, it is now not consolidated 
on 
a 
line-by-line 
basis 
with 
Group’s  
financial statements. 
 
n. 
Financial instruments
	
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives 
rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial 
liability or equity instrument of another entity.
 
 
Financial assets
	
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
	
All financial assets are recognised initially at 
fair value plus, in the case of financial assets 
not recorded at fair value through profit or loss, 
transaction costs that are attributable to the 
acquisition of the financial asset.
	
	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
For 
purposes 
of 
subsequent 
measurement, 
financial assets are classified in four categories:
	
	
•	
Debt instruments at amortized cost
	
	
•	
Debt instruments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (FVTOCI)
	
	
•	
Debt instruments, derivatives and equity 
instruments at fair value through profit or loss 
(FVTPL)
	
	
•	
Equity instruments measured at fair value 
through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI)
200
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 220
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
	
	
Debt instruments at amortised cost
	
	
A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortised 
cost if both the following conditions are met:
	
	
a)	
The asset is held within a business model 
whose objective is to hold assets for collecting 
contractual cash flows, and
	
	
b)	 Contractual terms of the asset give rise on 
specified dates to cash flows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest (SPPI) on 
the principal amount outstanding.
	
	
After initial measurement, such financial assets are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost 
is calculated by taking into account any discount 
or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that 
are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortization 
is included in finance income in the profit or loss. 
The losses arising from impairment are recognised 
in the profit or loss. This category generally applies 
to trade and other receivables and is most relevant 
to the Group.
	
	
Debt instrument at FVTOCI
	
	
A ‘debt instrument’ is classified as at the FVTOCI if 
both of the following criteria are met:
	
	
a)	
The objective of the business model is 
achieved both by collecting contractual cash 
flows and selling the financial assets,   and
	
	
b)	 The asset’s contractual cash flows represent 
SPPI.
	
	
Debt instruments included within the FVTOCI 
category are measured initially as well as at each 
reporting date at fair value. Fair value movements 
are recognized in the other comprehensive income 
(OCI). However, the Group recognizes interest 
income, impairment losses and reversals and 
foreign exchange gain or loss in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss. On derecognition 
of the asset, cumulative gain or loss previously 
recognised in OCI is reclassified from the equity to 
consolidated statement of profit and loss. Interest 
earned whilst holding FVTOCI debt instrument is 
reported as interest income using the EIR method.
	
	
Debt instrument at FVTPL
	
	
FVTPL is a residual category for debt instruments. 
Any debt instrument, which does not meet the 
criteria for categorization as at amortized cost or 
as FVTOCI, is classified as at FVTPL.
	
	
In addition, the Group may elect to designate a debt 
instrument, which otherwise meets amortized cost or 
FVTOCI criteria, as at FVTPL. However, such election 
is allowed only if doing so reduces or eliminates a 
measurement or recognition inconsistency (referred 
to as ‘accounting mismatch’). 
	
	
Debt instruments included within the FVTPL category 
are measured at fair value with all changes recognized 
in the consolidated statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Equity investments
	
	
All equity investments in scope of Ind AS 109 
are measured at fair value. The Group may 
make an irrevocable election to present in other 
comprehensive income subsequent changes in the 
fair value. The Group makes such election on an 
instrument-by-instrument basis. The classification 
is made on initial recognition and is irrevocable.
	
	
If the Group decides to classify an equity instrument 
as at FVTOCI, then all fair value changes on the 
instrument, excluding dividends, are recognized in 
the OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts from 
OCI to consolidated statement of profit or loss, even 
on sale of investment. However, the Group may 
transfer the cumulative gain or loss within equity.
	
	
Equity instruments included within the FVTPL 
category are measured at fair value with all changes 
recognized in the consolidated statement of profit 
and loss.
	
	
The equity securities which are not held for trading, 
and for which the Group has made an irrevocable 
election at initial recognition to recognize changes 
in fair value through OCI rather than profit or loss 
as these are strategic investments and the Group 
considered this to be more relevant.
	
	
Equity investments in associates and joint ventures 
are measured at cost. The investments are reviewed 
at each reporting date to determine whether there 
is any indication of impairment considering the 
provisions of Ind AS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’. If 
any such indication exists, policy for impairment of 
non-financial assets is followed.
	
	
Derecognition
	
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a 
financial asset or part of a group of similar financial 
assets) is primarily derecognised (i.e. removed from 
the Group’s consolidated balance sheet) when:
	
	
•	
The rights to receive cash flows from the asset 
have expired, or
201
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 221
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
	
	
•	
The Group has transferred its rights to receive 
cash flows from the asset or has assumed an 
obligation to pay the received cash flows in full 
without material delay to a third party under a 
‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either (a) the 
Group has transferred substantially all the risks 
and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Group has 
neither transferred nor retained substantially 
all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has 
transferred control of the asset.
	
	
When the Group has transferred its rights to receive 
cash flows from an asset or has entered into a 
pass-through arrangement, it evaluates if and to 
what extent it has retained the risks and rewards 
of ownership. When it has neither transferred nor 
retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of 
the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the 
Group continues to recognise the transferred asset 
to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement. 
In that case, the Group also recognises an 
associated liability. The transferred asset and the 
associated liability are measured on a basis that 
reflects the rights and obligations that the Group 
has retained.
	
	
Impairment of financial assets
	
	
In accordance with Ind AS 109, the Group applies 
expected credit loss (ECL) model for measurement 
and recognition of impairment loss on financial 
assets that are debt instruments, and are measured 
at amortised cost e.g., loans, debt securities, 
deposits, trade receivables and bank balance.
	
	
The Group follows ‘simplified approach’ for 
recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade 
receivables. The application of simplified approach 
does not require the Group to track changes in 
credit risk. Rather, it recognises impairment loss 
allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting 
date, right from its initial recognition. 
	
	
For recognition of impairment loss on other financial 
assets and risk exposure, the Group determines 
that whether there has been a significant increase 
in the credit risk since initial recognition. If credit 
risk has not increased significantly, 12-month 
expected credit loss (ECL) is used to provide 
for impairment loss. However, if credit risk has 
increased significantly, lifetime ECL is used. If, in a 
subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument 
improves such that there is no longer a significant 
increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then 
the entity reverts to recognising impairment loss 
allowance based on 12-month ECL.
	
	
Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses 
resulting from all possible default events over 
the expected life of a financial instrument. The 
12-month ECL is a portion of the lifetime ECL which 
results from default events that are possible within 
12 months after the reporting date.
	
	
ECL is the difference between all contractual cash 
flows that are due to the Group in accordance 
with the contract and all the cash flows that the 
entity expects to receive (i.e., all cash shortfalls), 
discounted at the original EIR.
	
	
The Group uses a provision matrix to determine 
impairment loss allowance on portfolio of its 
trade receivables. The provision matrix is based 
on its historically observed default rates over 
the expected life of the trade receivables and is 
adjusted for forward-looking estimates. At every 
reporting date, the historical observed default 
rates are updated and changes in the forward-
looking estimates are analysed.
	
	
ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) 
recognized during the period is recognized as 
income/ expense in the consolidated statement 
of profit and loss. This amount is reflected under 
the head other expenses in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss. For the financial assets 
measured as at amortised cost ECL is presented 
as an allowance, i.e., as an integral part of the 
measurement of those assets in the consolidated 
balance sheet. The allowance reduces the net 
carrying amount. Until the asset meets write-off 
criteria, the Group does not reduce impairment 
allowance from the gross carrying amount.
 
 
Financial liabilities
	
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
	
Financial 
liabilities 
are 
classified, 
at 
initial 
recognition, as financial liabilities at fair value 
through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, 
payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging 
instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
	
	
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair 
value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and 
payables, net of directly attributable transaction 
costs.
	
	
The Group’s financial liabilities include borrowings, 
lease liabilities, trade and other payables.
202
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 222
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
	
	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on 
their classification as described below: 
	
	
Loans and borrowings
	
	
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans 
and borrowings are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the EIR method. Gains and 
losses are recognised in profit or loss when the 
liabilities are derecognised as well as through the 
EIR amortisation process. 
	
	
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account 
any discount or premium on acquisition and fees 
or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The 
EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Derecognition
	
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged or 
cancelled or expires. When an existing financial 
liability is replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, or the terms 
of an existing liability are substantially modified, 
such an exchange or modification is treated as 
the derecognition of the original liability and the 
recognition of a new liability. The difference in the 
respective carrying amounts is recognised in the 
consolidated statement of profit or loss.
	
	
Embedded derivatives
	
	
An embedded derivative is a component of a 
hybrid (combined) instrument that also includes a 
non-derivative host contract – with the effect that 
some of the cash flows of the combined instrument 
vary in a way similar to a stand-alone derivative. 
An embedded derivative causes some or all of the 
cash flows that otherwise would be required by the 
contract to be modified according to a specified 
interest rate, financial instrument price, commodity 
price, foreign exchange rate, index of prices or 
rates, credit rating or credit index, or other variable, 
provided in the case of a non-financial variable that 
the variable is not specific to a party to the contract. 
Reassessment only occurs if there is either a 
change in the terms of the contract that significantly 
modifies the cash flows that would otherwise be 
required or a reclassification of a financial asset out 
of the fair value through profit or loss.
	
	
If the hybrid contract contains a host that is a 
financial asset within the scope of Ind AS 109, the 
Group does not separate embedded derivatives. 
Rather, it applies the classification requirements 
contained in Ind AS 109 to the entire hybrid 
contract. Derivatives embedded in all other host 
contracts are accounted for as separate derivatives 
and recorded at fair value if their economic 
characteristics and risks are not closely related to 
those of the host contracts and the host contracts 
are not held for trading or designated at fair value 
though profit or loss. These embedded derivatives 
are measured at fair value with changes in fair value 
recognized in profit or loss, unless designated as 
effective hedging instruments.
	
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
	
Financial 
assets 
and 
financial 
liabilities 
are 
offset and the net amount is reported in the 
consolidated balance sheet if there is a currently 
enforceable legal right to offset the recognised 
amounts and there is an intention to settle on 
a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the  
liabilities simultaneously.
 
o. 
Cash and cash equivalents
	
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the consolidated 
balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand 
and short-term deposits with an original maturity 
of three months or less, which are subject to an 
insignificant risk of changes in value.
	
	
For the purpose of the consolidated statement 
of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist 
of cash and short-term deposits, as defined 
above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts as they 
are considered an integral part of the Group’s  
cash management.
 
p. 
Leases
 
 
The Group as a lessee
	
	
The Group’s lease asset classes primarily consist 
of leases for land and office premises. The Group 
assesses whether a contract contains a lease, at 
inception of a contract. A contract is, or contains, 
a lease if the contract conveys the right to control 
the use of an identified asset for a period of time 
in exchange for consideration. To assess whether 
a contract conveys the right to control the use of 
an identified asset, the Group assesses whether: (i) 
the contact involves the use of an identified asset 
(ii) the Group has substantially all of the economic 
benefits from use of the asset through the period 
of the lease and (iii) the Group has the right to 
direct the use of the asset.
203
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 223
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
	
	
At the date of commencement of the lease, the 
Group recognizes a right-of-use asset (“ROU”) 
and a corresponding lease liability for all lease 
arrangements in which it is a lessee, except for 
leases with a term of twelve months or less (short-
term leases) and low value leases. For these short-
term and low value leases, the Group recognizes 
the lease payments as an operating expense on a 
straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
	
	
Certain lease arrangements includes the options to 
extend or terminate the lease before the end of the 
lease term. ROU assets and lease liabilities includes 
these options when it is reasonably certain that 
they will be exercised.
	
	
The right-of-use assets are initially recognized at 
cost, which comprises the initial amount of the 
lease liability adjusted for any lease payments 
made at or prior to the commencement date of 
the lease plus any initial direct costs less any lease 
incentives. They are subsequently measured at 
cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment 
losses, if any.
	
	
Right-of-use assets are depreciated from the 
commencement date on a straight-line basis over 
the shorter of the lease term and useful life of the 
underlying asset. Right of use assets are evaluated 
for recoverability whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts 
may not be recoverable. For the purpose of 
impairment testing, the recoverable amount (i.e. 
the higher of the fair value less cost to sell and 
the value-in-use) is determined on an individual 
asset basis unless the asset does not generate 
cash flows that are largely independent of those 
from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable 
amount is determined for the Cash Generating Unit 
(CGU) to which the asset belongs.
	
	
The lease liability is initially measured at amortized 
cost at the present value of the future lease 
payments. The lease payments are discounted using 
the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if not readily 
determinable, using the incremental borrowing rates 
in the country of domicile of these leases. Lease 
liabilities are remeasured with a corresponding 
adjustment to the related right of use asset if the 
Group changes its assessment if whether it will 
exercise an extension or a termination option.
	
	
Lease liability and ROU asset have been separately 
presented in the consolidated balance sheet and 
lease payments have been classified as financing 
cash flows.
 
q. 
Earnings/ (loss) per share (EPS)
	
	
Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the 
profit/ (loss) for the year attributable to equity 
holders by the weighted average number of Equity 
shares outstanding during the year excluding the 
treasury shares.
	
	
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing 
the profit/ (loss) attributable to equity holders by 
the weighted average number of Equity shares 
outstanding during the year plus the weighted 
average number of Equity shares that would be 
issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential 
Equity shares into Equity shares.
 
r. 
Treasury shares
	
	
Own equity instruments that are reacquired 
(treasury shares) are recognised at cost and 
deducted from equity. No gain or loss is recognised 
in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or 
cancellation of the Group’s own equity instruments. 
Any difference between the carrying amount and 
the consideration, if reissued, is recognised in 
other reserve.
 
s. 
Segment reporting
	
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner 
consistent with the internal reporting provided to the 
chief operating decision-maker. The Chief Operating 
decision-maker is responsible for allocating resources 
and assessing performance of the operating 
segments and makes strategic decisions. Refer Note 
34 for segment information presented.
 
t. 
Use of estimates 
	
	
The Group is required to make estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts 
of assets, liabilities, disclosure of contingent 
liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial 
statements and the reported amounts of revenue 
and expenses during the reporting period. Actual 
results could differ from those estimates. The 
Group bases its estimates on historical experience 
and on various other assumptions that are believed 
to be reasonable, the results of which form the 
basis for making judgements about carrying values 
of assets and liabilities.
204
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 224
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
 
u. 
Exceptional Items
	
	
On certain occasions, the size, type or incidence 
of an item of income or expense, pertaining to 
the ordinary activities of the Group is such that 
its disclosure improves the understanding of 
the performance of the Group. Such income or 
expense is classified as an exceptional item and 
accordingly disclosed in the consolidated financial 
statements. Significant impact on the consolidated 
financial statements arising from impairment of 
goodwill, impairment of investments in associates 
and gain/ loss on disposal of subsidiaries and 
associates (other than major lines of business that 
meet the definition of a discontinued operation) are 
considered and reported as exceptional items.
 
v. 
Contributed Equity
 
 
Equity shares are classified as equity.
	
	
The transaction costs of an equity transaction are 
accounted for as a deduction from equity (net of 
any related income tax benefit) to the extent they 
are incremental costs directly attributable to the 
equity transaction that otherwise would have been 
avoided. Qualifying transaction costs incurred in 
anticipation of an issuance of equity instruments 
is deferred on the balance sheet until the equity 
instrument is recognised. Deferred costs are 
subsequently reclassified as a deduction from 
equity when the equity instruments are recognised. 
If the equity instruments are not subsequently 
issued, the deferred transaction costs are charged 
off to profit or loss.
	
	
The transaction costs incurred with respect to the 
IPO of the Holding Company as reduced by the 
amount recovered from the selling shareholders are 
allocated between new issue of shares and listing 
of existing equity shares. The costs attributable to 
listing of existing shares is recognised in profit or 
loss and the costs attributable to new issuance of 
shares is recognised in equity.
205
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 225
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
3(a). Property, plant and equipment	
Particulars
Computers
Furniture 
and Fittings
Leasehold 
Improvements
Vehicles
Office 
Equipments
Plant & 
Machinery^
Total
Gross carrying amount
As at April 1, 2020
 3,453 
 100 
 349 
 15 
 354 
 1,265 
 5,536 
Additions
 360 
 6 
 92 
 8 
 45 
 1,359 
 1,870 
Foreign Currency 
Translation Reserve
 2 
 1 
 4 
 - 
 1 
 - 
 8 
Disposals
 76 
 38 
 198 
 12 
 90 
 2 
 416 
As at March 31, 2021
 3,739 
 69 
 247 
 11 
 310 
 2,622 
 6,998 
As at April 1, 2021
 3,739 
 69 
 247 
 11 
 310 
 2,622 
 6,998 
Additions
 662 
 5 
 10 
 - 
 31 
 4,057 
 4,765 
Foreign Currency 
Translation Reserve
 3 
 1 
 8 
 - 
 * 
 - 
 12 
Disposals
 173 
 23 
 * 
 - 
 34 
 - 
 230 
As at March 31, 2022
 4,231 
 52 
 265 
 11 
 307 
 6,679 
 11,545 
Accumulated 
depreciation 
As at April 1, 2020
 2,168 
 58 
 157 
 10 
 183 
 344 
 2,920 
For the year
 597 
 9 
 129 
 2 
 42 
 679 
 1,458 
Foreign Currency 
Translation Reserve
 1 
 * 
 1 
 - 
 * 
 - 
 2 
Disposals
 58 
 26 
 204 
 9 
 76 
 1 
 374 
As at March 31, 2021
 2,708 
 41 
 83 
 3 
 149 
 1,022 
 4,006 
As at April 1, 2021
 2,708 
 41 
 83 
 3 
 149 
 1,022 
 4,006 
For the year
 562 
 8 
 37 
 2 
 28 
 1,479 
 2,116 
Foreign Currency 
Translation Reserve
 2 
 * 
 4 
 - 
 * 
 - 
 6 
Disposals
 150 
 19 
 * 
 - 
 30 
 - 
 199 
As at March 31, 2022
 3,122 
 30 
 124 
 5 
 147 
 2,501 
 5,929 
Net carrying amount
As at March 31, 2022
 1,109 
 22 
 141 
 6 
 160 
 4,178 
 5,616 
As at March 31, 2021
 1,031 
 28 
 164 
 8 
 161 
 1,600 
 2,992 
	
Notes:
	
(i)	 Capital work-in-progress (Refer note 3(c))
	
	
Capital work-in-progress mainly comprises of servers and electrical devices. Further, Capital work-in-progress 
includes expenditure of H 40 (March 31, 2021: H 41) relating to expenses incurred on construction of office premises.
	
(ii)	 Refer to note 29 (c) for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
	
	
^ Plant and machinery includes Gross carrying amount H 4,678 (March 31, 2021: H 1,831),  Accumulated depreciation  
H 1,875 (March 31, 2021: H 780), Net carrying amount H 2,803 (March 31, 2021: H 1,051) of point-of-sale machines and 
sound boxes installed at customer premises.
	
	
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the group.
206
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 226
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
3 (b). Leases
A.	 Right -of-use assets
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Lease Liability on Land- Current
 58 
114
Lease Liability on Land- Non-Current
 - 
62
Lease Liability on Office Premises- Current
 334 
 130 
Lease Liability on Office Premises- Non-Current
 1,822 
 365 
Total
 2,214 
 671 
Total lease liability - Current
 392 
 244 
Total lease liability - Non-Current
 1,822 
 427 
Particulars
Notes
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2021
Depreciation charge of Right-of-use-assets
Land
 10 
 10 
Office Premises#
 263 
 251 
Total 
17
 273 
 261 
Particulars
 Right-of-use 
Leasehold Land 
 Right-of-use 
Office Premises 
 Total 
Gross Carrying Amount
As at April 1, 2020
 844 
 2,177 
 3,021 
Additions
 - 
 296 
 296 
Disposals (refer note below)
 - 
 1,426 
 1,426 
As at March 31, 2021
 844 
 1,047 
 1,891 
As at April 1, 2021
 844 
 1,047 
 1,891 
Additions
 - 
 1,941 
 1,941 
Disposals (refer note below)
 - 
 6 
 6 
As at March 31, 2022
 844 
 2,982 
 3,826 
Accumulated Depreciation
As at April 1, 2020
 10 
 337 
 347 
Charge for the Year
 10 
 251 
 261 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2021
 20 
 588 
 608 
As at April 1, 2021
 20 
 588 
 608 
Charge for the year
 10 
 263 
 273 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2022
 30 
 851 
 881 
Net Carrying Amount
As at March 31, 2022
 814 
 2,131 
 2,945 
As at March 31, 2021
 824 
 459 
 1,283 
B.	 Lease Liabilities
C.	 Amounts recognised in Statement of profit and loss
207
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 227
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
3 (b). Leases (Contd..)
Particulars
Notes
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2021
Interest expense (included in finance cost)
18
 86 
 123 
Expense relating to short-term lease  
(included in other expenses)
19
 100 
 92 
CWIP
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
Years
Projects in progress
56
5
2
39
 102 
Intangible assets under 
development
Amount for a period of
Total
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
Years
Projects in progress
16
1
 1 
*
 18 
CWIP
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
Years
Projects in progress
 157 
 8 
 39 
 4 
 208 
	
# This amount is including cross charge of H 2 (March 31, 2021: 5). Net depreciation charge of Right-of-use assets in profit & loss is H 271 (March 
31, 2021 H 256).	
	
	
	
	
The lease term is reassessed if an option is actually exercised (or not exercised) or the Company becomes obliged to 
exercise (or not exercise) it. The assessment of reasonable certainty is only revised if a significant event or a significant 
change in circumstances occurs, which affects this assessment, and that is within the control of the lessee. During the 
year ended March 31, 2022, the Group has given notice to vacate certain office premises. This has been accounted as 
lease termination. Hence, in accordance with Ind AS 116, Lease Liability has been re-measured by H 9 (March 31, 2021: 
1,476) with corresponding adjustment to Right of Use assets amounting to H 6 (March 31, 2021: 1,426) and the remaining 
balance has been included in Miscellaneous Income disclosed under Other Income in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
The total cash outflow for leases for the year is H 402 (March 31, 2021: 469)
 
Extension and termination options:
	
Extension and termination options are included in ceratin leases. These are used to maximise operational flexibility in 
terms of managing the assets used in the Group’s operations. In certain cases, the extension and termination options 
held are exercisable only by the Group and not by the respective lessor.
3 (c) Capital work-in-progress aging schedule
Capital work-in-progress (CWIP) for the year ended March 31, 2022	
	
	
Capital work-in-progress (CWIP) for the year ended March 31, 2021	
	
	
3 (d) Intangible assets under development aging schedule	
Intangible assets under development aging schedule for the year ended March 31, 2022
208
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 228
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
3 (d) Intangible assets under development aging schedule (Contd..)
4. Intangible assets	
Intangible assets under 
development
Amount for a period of
Total
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
Years
Projects in progress
 25 
 2 
 - 
 1 
 28 
Intangible assets under development aging schedule for the year ended March 31, 2021
Particulars
Customer 
Relationship
Brand
Non-
Compete Software 
 Internally 
Generated 
Software 
 Total Goodwill
Gross carrying amount
As at April 1, 2020
 251 
 448 
 39 
 527 
 104 
 1,369 
 4,129 
Additions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 65 
 - 
 65 
 - 
Foreign Currency Translation 
Reserve
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 * 
 * 
 - 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2021
 251 
 448 
 39 
 592 
 103 
 1,433 
 4,129 
As at April 1, 2021
 251 
 448 
 39 
 592 
 103 
 1,433 
 4,129 
Additions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 49 
 - 
 49 
 - 
Foreign Currency Translation 
Reserve
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1 
 1 
 - 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 191 
 - 
 191 
 - 
As at March 31, 2022
 251 
 448 
 39 
 450 
 104 
 1,292 
 4,129 
Accumulated Amortization/
Impairment
As at April 1, 2020
 239 
 439 
 33 
 380 
 100 
 1,191 
 3,662 
For the year
 4 
 * 
 3 
 63 
 1 
 71 
 - 
Foreign Currency Translation 
Reserve
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 * 
 * 
 - 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2021
 243 
 439 
 36 
 443 
 101 
 1,262 
 3,662 
As at April 1, 2021
 243 
 439 
 36 
 443 
 101 
 1,262 
 3,662 
For the year
 4 
 7 
 3 
 71 
 1 
 86 
 - 
Impairment loss for the year 
(Refer note 36)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 24 
Foreign Currency Translation 
Reserve
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 * 
 * 
 - 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 191 
 - 
 191 
 - 
As at March 31, 2022
 247 
 446 
 39 
 323 
 102 
 1,157 
 3,686 
Net carrying amount
As at March 31, 2022
 4 
 2 
 - 
 127 
 2 
 135 
 443 
As at March 31, 2021
 8 
 9 
 3 
 149 
 2 
 171 
 467 
	
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the group.
209
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 229
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
5 (a) Investment in joint ventures - Non Current
5 (b) Investment in associates - Non Current
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021 
Unquoted equity shares (Fully paid up)
Paytm First Games Private Limited (Refer note 24)
 - 
 -  
68,233,850 (March 31, 2021 : 68,233,850) equity shares of H 10 each
 -  
 - 
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021 
Unquoted equity shares (Fully paid up)
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 1,956 
 2,006 
195,904,900 (March 31 2021 : 195,904,900) equity shares of H 10 each
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 - 
 - 
980,000 (March 31, 2021 : 980,000) equity shares of H 10 each
Paytm Life Insurance Limited
 * 
 * 
49,000 (March 31, 2021 : 49,000) equity shares of H 10 each
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 4 
 19 
2,000,000 (March 31, 2021 : 2,000,000) equity shares of H 10 each
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited (Formerly known as QorQl Private Limited) 
(refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
2,560,938 (March 31, 2021 : 2,560,938) equity shares of H 10 each
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited (Refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
2,879 (March 31, 2021 : 2,879) equity shares of H 10 each
Total (A)
 1,961 
 2,026 
Unquoted compulsorily convertible preference shares (Fully paid up)
Socomo Technologies Private Limited (refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
28,800 (March 31, 2021 : 28,800) Compulsorily Convertible Preference share 
of face value of H 1 each
Infinity Transoft Solutions Private Limited
 79 
 86 
3,618 (March 31, 2021 : 3,618) Compulsorily Convertible Preference share of 
face value of H 10 each
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited (refer note (i) below)
 193 
 205 
72,373 (March 31, 2021 : 72,373) Compulsorily Convertible Preference share 
of face value of H 100 each
Total (B)
 272 
 291 
Grand Total [A+B]
 2,233 
 2,317 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 2,233 
 2,317 
Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of investment
 754 
 754 
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
(i)	 Net of provision for impairment amounting to H 26 (March 31, 2021: 26), H 428 (March 31, 2021 : 428) and H 300 (March 
31, 2021 : 300) for Paytm Insuretech Private Limited, Socomo Technologies Private Limited and Eatgood Technologies 
Private Limited, respectively.	
210
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 230
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
6 (a). Other Investments - Current
6 (b). Other Investments - Non-Current
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021 
Investments at amortised cost
Debt instruments (quoted)
LIC Housing Finance Limited 7.03%  28 Dec 2021
 - 
 500 
Nil (March 31, 2021 : 500) Redeemable Non Convertible Debentures of  
H 1,000,000 each
HDFC Series W-001 7.15% 16 Sep 2021
 - 
 251 
Nil (March 31, 2021 : 250) Redeemable Non Convertible Debentures of  
H 1,003,676 each
LIC Housing Finance Limited 7.03% 28 Dec 2021
 - 
 500 
Nil (March 31, 2021 : 500) Redeemable Non Convertible Debentures of  
H 999,978 each
Kotak Mahindra Investments Ltd 0% 28 Oct 2021
 - 
 221 
Nil (March 31, 2021 : 250) Redeemable Non Convertible Debentures of  
H 883,748 each
Total Current investments
 - 
 1,472 
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021 
Investments at fair value through OCI (refer note (ii) below)
Unquoted equity shares (Fully paid up)
ZEPO Technologies Private Limited
 23 
 23 
3,458 (March 31, 2021 : 3,458) Equity shares of face value H 10 each
Red Pixels Ventures Limited (Refer note (iv) below)
 - 
 4 
Nil (March 31, 2021 : 1,093) Equity shares of face value H 10 each
Plivo Inc. (Refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
793,696 (March 31, 2021 : 793,696) common stock of USD 0.00001 each.
Software Is Correct INC (Refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
34,333 (March 31, 2021 : 34,333) common stock of USD 1 each
Stock acquisition rights (PayPay Corporation) (Refer note (iii) below)
 9,726 
 221 
Total (A)
 9,749 
 248 
Investments at fair value through Profit and loss
Unquoted Compulsorily Convertible Preference shares (Fully paid up)
Raining Clouds Tech Private Limited (Refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
3,620 (March 31, 2021 : 3,620) Redeemable Convertible Preference Shares of 
H 10 each
Avenues Payments India Private Limited (Refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
11,379 (March 31, 2021 : 11,379) Compulsorily Convertible Preference share of 
face value of H 100 each
Loginext Solutions Private Limited (Refer note (i) below)
 - 
 - 
279,443 (March 31, 2021 : 279,443) Compulsorily Convertible Preference 
share of face value of H 10 each
211
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 231
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021 
Rooter Sports Technologies Private Limited
 40 
 40 
1,160 (March 31, 2021 : 1,160) Compulsorily Convertible Preference share of 
face value H 10 each
 40 
 40 
Unquoted equity shares (Fully paid up)
Paytm E-commerce Private Limited
Nil (March 31, 2021 : 4,837) Equity shares of face value H 10 each held by 
Paytm Associate Benefit Welfare Trust (formerly known as One97 Employee 
Welfare Trust)
 - 
 53 
 - 
 53 
Unquoted optionally convertible debentures (Fully paid up)
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 32 
 - 
29,998,620 (March 31, 2021 : Nil) 10% Debentures of face value H 10 each
Admirable Software Limited 
 241 
 - 
23,109,232 (March 31, 2021 : Nil) 10% Debentures of face value H 10 each
 273 
 - 
Total (B) 
 313 
 93 
Total Non-Current investments [A+B]
 10,062 
 341 
Total Current Investments
 - 
 1,472 
Total Non-Current Investments
 10,062 
 341 
 10,062 
 1,813 
Aggregate book value of unquoted investments
 10,062 
 341 
Aggregate book value of quoted investments
 - 
 1,472 
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 - 
 1,472 
6 (b). Other Investments - Non-Current (Contd..)
Notes to 6 (b)
(i)	 The Group holds these investments, however the fair value is Nil.
(ii)	 Investments at fair value through OCI (fully paid) reflect investment in unquoted equity securities. Refer note 31 for 
determination of their fair values.
(iii)	 Changes in fair value of equity instruments at FVTOCI represents the fair value gain for the year ended March 31, 2022.
(iv)	 Investment disposed off during the year.
6 (c). Loans
Particulars
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Inter Corporate Loans#
	
with related parties (Refer note 26)
 1,362 
 - 
 471 
 1,279 
	
Others
 - 
 - 
 500 
 555 
Less: Loss allowance for inter corporate loans
 - 
 - 
 (457)
 (223)
 1,362 
 - 
 514 
 1,611 
212
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 232
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
6 (c). Loans (Contd..)
Particulars
As at
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Break-up of security details
Secured, considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Unsecured, considered good
 1,362 
 - 
 514 
 1,611 
Loans which have significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 457 
 223 
Loans Credit Impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,362 
 - 
 971 
 1,834 
Less: Loss allowance for inter corporate loans
 - 
 - 
 (457)
 (223)
Total Loans
 1,362 
 - 
 514 
 1,611 
# Inter corporate loans are given after complying with the provisions of section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013. The loans have been given in 
accordance with terms and conditions of the underlying agreements. Outstanding loans carry interest rate in the range of 5.10% to 12% (March 31, 
2021: 5.10% to 12%).
## Loan of H 803, H 402 and H 408 has been given to Paytm First Games Private Limited on June 7, 2021, September 30, 2021 and January 27, 2022 
respectively. The Holding Company has the rights of conversion into a variable number of shares in Paytm First Games Private Limited (Joint venture of 
Paytm Entertainment Limited, wholly owned subsidiary) at fair market value and with mutual consent, during the tenure of loan. The interest is payable 
at the end of the repayment period. The loan has been fair valued through profit and loss (FVTPL) since it does not meet the SPPI test. 
The same is presented in the non-current Loans as follows:
Particulars
Amount
Face value of loan given
 1,613 
Fair value of loan on inception
 1,317 
Deemed investment in Paytm First Games Private Limited
 296 
The Group has not granted loans to its directors, KMPs and the related parties (as defined under Companies Act, 2013) 
which are repayable on demand or without specifying any terms or period of repayment. In certain cases, the Group has the 
right to demand for payment before specified period.
The details of such loans given to related parties are as follows:
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Amount of loan or advance in the nature of loan outstanding as specified above
 470 
 1,279 
Percentage to the total Loans and Advances in the nature of loans
20%
70%
Details of loans (gross) as per Section 186 (4) of Companies Act, 2013 and Disclosure as per Regulation 34 (3)  read with 
Part A of Schedule V of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 in respect of loans/ 
advances/ investments outstanding as at year end
Particulars
Interest 
Rates
Gross inter corporate loans 
outstanding as at
Maximum amount of inter 
corporate loans outstanding 
during the year
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Paytm First Games Private Limited #
8.00%
 1,679 
 828 
 1,679 
 828 
Paytm Financial Services Limited ##
5.10%
 471 
 451 
 471 
 451 
Note:
(i)	
The above loans have been provided for general corporate purposes.
# Excluding fair valuation impact amounting to H 317 (March 31, 2021: Nil)
## Loan has been repaid subsequent to the year end.
213
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 233
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Security deposits
 755 
 1,259 
 1,423 
 954 
Less: Loss allowance for security deposits
 (37)
 (1)
 (2)
 (1)
A
 718 
 1,258 
 1,421 
 953 
Bank balances
Deposits with original maturity for more than 12 
months (Refer footnote (b) and (d) to note 9(a))
 40,688 
 2,506 
 - 
 - 
Others
Loan to employees
 - 
 - 
 3 
 1 
Other advances recoverable in cash
 - 
 - 
 122 
 77 
Interest accrued on Debt Instruments measured at 
amortised cost
 - 
 - 
 - 
 46 
Interest accrued but not due on fixed deposits
 708 
 107 
 514 
 1,382 
Interest accrued on security deposit
 - 
 - 
 138 
 87 
Other receivable from other parties (Refer note 38)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6,251 
B
 41,396 
 2,613 
 777 
 7,844 
Amount recoverable from Payment Gateway 
banks**
Unsecured, considered good
Amount recoverable from other parties
 - 
 - 
 9,006 
 5,052 
Amount recoverable from related parties (Refer 
note 26)
 - 
 - 
 20,115 
 8,546 
Unsecured, considered doubtful
Amount recoverable from other parties
 - 
 - 
 132 
 21 
 - 
 - 
 29,253 
 13,619 
Less : Loss allowance
 - 
 - 
 (132)
 (21)
C
 - 
 - 
 29,121 
 13,598 
Unsecured, considered good
Amount recoverable from related parties (Refer 
note 26)#
 - 
 - 
 411 
 627 
Amount recoverable from other parties (Refer note 
38)
 - 
 - 
 13 
 199 
Amount recoverable from exchange for margin 
money
 - 
 - 
 75 
 165 
Amount recoverable from other parties
 17 
 - 
 477 
 - 
D
 17 
 - 
 976 
 991 
 Total [A+B+C+D] 
 42,131 
 3,871 
 32,295 
 23,386 
6 (d). Other financial assets
#Includes payable of H 2,944 (March 31, 2021: H 2,111) with the advance of H 2,260 (March 31, 2021: H 2,278) as the Group has contractual right to offset 
the payable with the advance and also has the intention to settle the same on a net basis. The net payable of H 684 (March 31, 2021: Nil) is grouped 
under Payable to merchants under Other financial liabilities shown in Note 13(c).
** The amount represent recoverable from payment gateway banks on account of credit card/debit card and net banking/UPI transactions related to 
third party merchants.
 *Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
214
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 234
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
6 (d). Other financial assets (Contd..)
Break up of financial assets
Particulars
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
At cost
Investment in joint ventures (Refer note 5(a))
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Investment in associates (Refer note 5(b))
 2,233 
 2,317 
 - 
 - 
 2,233 
 2,317 
 - 
 - 
At amortised cost
Trade receivables (Refer note 7)
 - 
 - 
 7,464 
 4,713 
Cash and cash equivalents (Refer note 9(a))
 - 
 - 
 13,790 
 5,468 
Bank balances other than cash and cash 
equivalents (Refer note 9(b))
 - 
 - 
 38,230 
 23,296 
Inter corporate loans (Refer note 6(c))
 - 
 - 
 514 
 1,611 
Other investments (Refer note 6(a))
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,472 
Others (Refer note 6(d))
 42,131 
 3,871 
 32,295 
 17,135 
 42,131 
 3,871 
 92,293 
 53,695 
At fair value
Other investments at fair value through OCI (Refer 
note 6(b))
 9,749 
 248 
 - 
 - 
Inter corporate loans at fair value through Profit 
and loss (Refer note 6(c))
 1,362 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Investments at fair value through Profit and loss 
(Refer note 6(b))
 313 
 93 
 - 
 - 
Other receivable from other parties- Receivable at 
FVTPL (Refer Note 6(d))
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6,251 
 11,424 
 341 
 - 
 6,251 
7. Trade receivables
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Trade Receivables
 7,606 
 5,841 
Receivables from related parties (Refer notes (i) & (ii) below)
 1,444 
 365 
Receivables from other parties (Refer notes 38)
 30 
 77 
Less: Loss allowance
 (1,616)
 (1,570)
 7,464 
 4,713 
Current
 7,464 
 4,713 
Non-current
 - 
 - 
215
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 235
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Trade receivables
Secured, considered good
 - 
 - 
Unsecured, considered good
 8,364 
 5,607 
Trade receivable which have significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
Trade receivable Credit Impaired
 716 
 676 
 9,080 
 6,283 
Impairment allowance on trade receivables
Less: Loss allowance
 (1,616)
 (1,570)
Total Trade receivables
 7,464 
 4,713 
Break-up of security details
(i)	 No trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the Company either severally or jointly with 
any other person. Nor any trade or other receivable are due from firms or private companies respectively in which any 
director is a partner, a director or a member, except as disclosed in note 26.
(ii)	 For related party receivables, Refer note 26	
(iii)	 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and generally carry a credit period of 30 days.
Trade Receivables ageing schedule for year ended March 31, 2022
7. Trade receivables (Contd..)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
Dues#
Not 
due
Less 
than 6 
months
6 
months 
-1 year
1-2 
years
  2-3 
years
 More 
than 3 
years
 Total
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables – considered 
good
 3,415 
 1,794 
 2,023 
 528 
 370 
 123 
 111  8,364 
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – which 
have significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 * 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)	Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
 - 
 - 
 4 
 * 
 10 
 * 
 3 
 17 
(iv)	Disputed Trade Receivables–considered 
good 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v)	Disputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)	Disputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
 - 
 * 
 2 
 14 
 28 
 10 
 645 
 699 
Total
 3,415 
 1,794 
 2,029 
 542 
 408 
 133 
 759  9,080 
216
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 236
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
7. Trade receivables (Contd..)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
Dues#
Not 
due
Less 
than 6 
months
6 
months 
-1 year
1-2 
years
  2-3 
years 
 More 
than 3 
years 
 Total 
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables – considered 
good
 1,578 
 1,421 
 1,550 
 390 
 321 
 160 
 187 
 5,607 
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivables – which 
have significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)	Undisputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 * 
 7 
 11 
 3 
 21 
(iv)	Disputed Trade Receivables–considered 
good 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v)	Disputed Trade Receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)	Disputed Trade Receivables – credit 
impaired
 - 
 - 
 3 
 - 
 19 
 114 
 519 
 655 
Total
 1,578 
 1,421 
 1,553 
 390 
 347 
 285 
 709  6,283 
Trade Receivables ageing schedule for year ended March 31, 2021
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
#The receivable is ‘unbilled’ because the group has not yet issued an invoice; however, the balance has been included under trade receivables (as 
opposed to contract assets) because the Group has an unconditional right to consideration.
8. Other assets  
Particulars
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Capital advances                                
Unsecured, considered good 
 762 
 179 
 - 
 - 
Doubtful 
 1 
 1 
 - 
 - 
 763 
 180 
 - 
 - 
Less: Provision for doubtful advances 
 (1)
 (1)
 - 
 - 
 A 
 762 
 179 
 - 
 - 
Advances other than capital advances 
Advances to vendors 
Unsecured, considered good 
 1,636 
 1,776 
 4,535 
 4,850 
Doubtful 
 - 
 - 
 202 
 140 
 1,636 
 1,776 
 4,737 
 4,990 
Less: Provision for doubtful advances 
 - 
 - 
 (202)
 (140)
 B 
 1,636 
 1,776 
 4,535 
 4,850 
Others
Balances with government authorities
	
Goods and services tax input credit
 500 
 627 
 7,987 
 5,623 
	
Value Added Tax (VAT) credit receivable 
 - 
 - 
 3 
 5 
Advance tax [net of provision] 
 - 
 - 
 29 
 4 
Prepayments
 134 
 204 
 1,366 
 768 
Advances to related parties* (Refer note 26)
 - 
 - 
 1,237 
 2,802 
C
 634 
 831 
 10,622 
 9,202 
Total (A+B+C)  
 3,032 
 2,786 
 15,157 
 14,052 
*No advances are recoverable from directors or other officers of the Company either severally or jointly with any other person. Nor any advance are 
recoverable from firms or private companies respectively in which any director is a partner, a director or a member, except as disclosed in note 26.
217
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 237
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
9(a). Cash and cash equivalents
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Cash on hand  
 * 
 1 
Balance with banks 
-	
On current accounts 
 12,742 
 2,606 
-	
Deposits with original maturity for less than 3 months 
 1,048 
 2,861 
 13,790 
 5,468 
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Deposits with original maturity of more than 3 months but less than 12 months 
(Refer footnote (b) and (d) to note 9(a)) 
 17,340 
 6,065 
Deposits with original maturity for more than 12 months (Refer footnote (b) 
and (d) to note 9(a)) 
 15,342 
 17,231 
Other deposits with banks# 
 5,548 
 - 
 38,230 
 23,296 
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
Notes :
(a)	 There are no repatriation restrictions with regard to cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the reporting period and 
prior period.
(b)	 Fixed deposits amounting to H 1,998 (March 31, 2021: 10,121) included in note 6(d) and 9(b) are marked under lien by 
banks for providing bank overdraft, working capital demand loan, issuing bank guarantees under various contract,Indian 
Clearing Corporation Limited and exchanges.
(c)	 Balance with banks on current accounts includes balance of Initial Public Offer (IPO) proceeds of H 736 (March 31, 2021: 
Nil) which will be utilised as stated in the prospectus for IPO.
(d)	 Fixed deposits amounting to H 70,900 (March 31, 2021: Nil) included in note 6(d) and 9(b) will be utilised as stated in the 
prospectus for IPO.
9(b). Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
#Deposits with banks amounting to H 5,548 (March 31, 2021 : Nil) are held by banks as security against bank guarantees.
10 (a). Share Capital
Particulars
 Number of Shares
 Amount
Authorised equity share capital
As at April 1, 2020
 104,106,600 
 1,041 
Increase/ (decrease) during the year
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2021
 104,106,600 
 1,041 
Increase/ (decrease) during the year
 - 
 - 
Adjustment for Sub-division of Equity Shares#
 936,959,400 
 - 
As at March 31, 2022
 1,041,066,000 
 1,041 
218
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 238
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
10 (a). Share Capital (Contd..)
Equity shares 
  March 31, 2022
  March 31, 2021
 Number
 Amount
 Number
 Amount
Shares outstanding at the beginning of the year# 
 60,260,013 
 605 
 60,187,655 
 604 
Shares issued during the year## 
 38,646,058 
 39 
 29,979 
 * 
Shares issued during the year - ESOP 
 4,627,616 
 5 
 42,379 
 * 
Adjustment for Sub-Division of Equity Shares
 543,217,887 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Impact on derecognition of trust
 1,809,840 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Shares outstanding at the end of the year# 
 648,561,414 
 649 
 60,260,013 
 605 
Name of shareholder
  March 31, 2022
  March 31, 2021
 Number of 
Shares held# 
 % holding 
 Number of 
Shares held 
 % holding 
Antfin (Netherlands) Holding B.V.
 161,420,141 
24.89%
 18,330,122 
30.31%
SVF India Holding (Cayman) Limited 
 113,262,230 
17.46%
 11,326,223 
18.73%
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma
 57,673,032 
8.89%
 9,051,624 
14.97%
SAIF III Mauritius Company Limited
 68,735,489 
10.60%
 7,491,061 
12.39%
Alibaba.com Singapore E-Commerce Private Limited
 40,631,822 
6.26%
 4,428,214 
7.32%
SAIF Partners India IV Limited
 - 
 - 
 3,180,202 
5.26%
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
648,561,414 equity shares of H 1 each fully paid up (March 31, 2021 : 
60,482,404 equity shares of H 10 each fully paid up) 
 649 
 605 
Total issued, subscribed and fully paid-up share capital 
 649 
 605 
Terms/ rights attached to equity shares
All the equity shares issued shall rank pari passu and have a par value of H 1 per share. Each shareholder is eligible for one 
vote per share held only.
#Pursuant to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Holding Company held on June 30, 2021, 
each equity share of face value of H 10 per share was sub-divided into ten equity shares of face value of H 1 per share, with 
effect from the record date, i.e., June 30, 2021.
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up shares
a.	 Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting year
 	
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
	
# Net of treasury shares Nil (March 31, 2021: 222,391 and April 1, 2020: 247,370) of face value of H 10 each, at nil cost through Paytm Associate 
Benefit Welfare Trust (formerly known as One97 Employee Welfare Trust)
	
## Shares issued during the year includes 41,407 (March 31, 2021 : 24,979) of face value of H 10 each out of treasury shares
b.	 Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Holding Company
	
#Pursuant to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Holding Company held on June 30, 2021, each equity share 
of face value of H 10 per share was sub-divided into ten equity shares of face value of H 1 per share, with effect from the record date, i.e., June 30, 
2021.
c.	 Shares reserved for issue under options	
	
For details of shares reserved for issue under the employee stock options plan (ESOP) of the Group (Refer note 25).
219
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 239
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
d.	 Aggregate number of bonus shares issued, shares bought back and share issued for consideration 
other than cash during the period of five years immediately preceding the reporting date:
	
The Holding Company has not issued any shares for consideration other than cash during the current year (March 31, 2021: 
Nil shares; March 31, 2020: Nil shares; March 31, 2019: 333,035; March 31, 2018: Nil shares; March 31, 2017: Nil shares).
	
The Holding Company has not issued bonus shares and has not bought back shares during the period of five years 
immediately preceding the reporting date.
e.	 Shareholding of Promoters
10 (a). Share Capital (Contd..)
Shares held by Promoters at the end of the year
% Change during 
the year
Promoter Name
No. of Shares
% of total shares
Nil
Not Applicable
	
As of March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021, the Holding Company does not have an identifiable promoter in terms of the 
Companies Act, 2013. The Holding Company is a professionaly managed Company. Accordingly, disclosures related to 
promoter shareholding is not applicable. 
10 (b). Other equity
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
1. Reserve and Surplus
	
Securities premium
 273,166 
 189,252 
	
Employee stock options outstanding account (ESOP Reserve)
 10,022 
 4,264 
	
Retained earnings
 (151,833)
 (128,717)
Total reserve and surplus (A)
 131,355 
 64,799 
1. Reserve and Surplus
(i) Securities premium
Opening balance
 189,252 
 188,953 
Add: transferred from ESOP Reserve on exercise of stock options
 2,290 
 192 
Add: amount received on issue of shares
 83,023 
 107 
Add: exercise of share options
 2 
 - 
Less: amount utilised for share issue expenses
 (1,401)
 - 
Balance at the end of the year
 273,166 
 189,252 
(ii) Employee stock options outstanding account (ESOP Reserve)
Opening balance
 4,264 
 3,552 
Add: share based payment expense
 8,093 
 1,118 
Add: share based payment reserve on account of joint venture
 78 
 19 
Less: amount transferred to securities premium on exercise of stock options 
(including for subsidiary amounting to Nil (March 31, 2021: H 27)
 (2,290)
 (219)
Less: reversal on forfeiture of stock options
 (17)
 (206)
Less: adjustment on cancellation of ESOP
 (106)
 - 
Balance at the end of the year
 10,022 
 4,264 
220
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 240
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
10 (b). Other equity (Contd..)
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
(iii) Retained earnings
Opening balance
 (128,717)
 (112,012)
Loss for the year
 (23,929)
 (16,961)
Less: acquisition of Non-controlling interest (Refer note 37)
 - 
 (54)
Add: amount transferred from ESOP reserve on exercise of options of 
subsidiary companies
 - 
 15 
Less: remeasurement of post-employee benefit obligation
 (21)
 (17)
Add: transfer from employee stock options outstanding
 17 
 206 
Add: adjustment on cancellation of ESOP
 106 
 - 
Add: other adjustments#
 711 
 106 
Balance at the end of the year
 (151,833)
 (128,717)
2. Share application money pending allotment
Opening balance
 2 
 * 
Less: exercise of share options
 (2)
 - 
Receipt of share application money (pending allotment)
 * 
 2 
Balance at the end of the year (B)
 * 
 2 
3. Other reserves- FVTOCI
Opening balance
 (33)
 20 
Net change in fair value of equity instruments at FVTOCI
 9,376 
 (53)
Balance at the end of the year (C) 
 9,343 
 (33)
4. Other reserves- FCTR
Opening balance
 (25)
 (65)
Net change during the year
 194 
 40 
Balance at the end of the year (D)
 169 
 (25)
Total other equity (A+B+C+D)
 140,867 
 64,743 
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
# Adjustment on settlement of incentive liability through Paytm Associate Benefit Welfare Trust (formerly known as One97 Employee Welfare Trust)
Nature and purpose of reserves
(i) Securities premium
	
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve is utilised in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act.	
(ii) Employee stock options outstanding account (ESOP Reserve)
	
Employee stock options outstanding account is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options issued to employees 
under the One 97 Employee Stock Option Plan.	
(iii) FVTOCI Reserve 
	
The Holding Company has elected to recognise changes in the fair values of the certain investments in equity instruments 
in other comprehensive income. These changes are accumulated within the FVTOCI reserve within equity. The Holding 
Company transfers amounts from this reserve to retained earning when relevant equity securities are derecognised.
(iv) FCTR Reserve
	
Exchange differences arising on translation of assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries 
are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated separately in foreign currency translation reserve. 
The amounts recognised are transferred to the consolidated statement of profit and loss on disposal of the related  
foreign subsidiaries.
221
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 241
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
11. Provisions
Particulars
Non-Current
Current
As at
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Provision for employee benefits
Provision for gratuity (Refer note 27)
 285 
 237 
 8 
 7 
Provision for leave benefits*
 - 
 - 
 805 
 410 
Other provisions
Provision for income tax
 - 
 - 
 6 
 8 
Other provisions
 22 
 10 
 4 
 5 
 307 
 247 
 823 
 430 
*The entire amount of the provision of H 805 (March 31, 2021: H 410) is presented as current, since the Group does not have an unconditional right to 
defer settlement for any of these obligations. However based on past experience, the Group does not expect all employees to avail the full amount of 
accrued leave or require payment for such leave within the next 12 months. The amount not expected to be settled within next twelve months is H 613 
(March 31, 2021: H 316).
12 (a) Borrowings
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Current
Secured from banks
Loan repayable on demand- bank overdraft (refer note (i) below)
 1 
 5,014 
Working capital demand loan (refer note (ii) below)
 - 
 435 
Total borrowings
 1 
 5,449 
Note: 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(i)	
In respect of one subsidiary, Bank Overdraft carries interest rate of 8.5% (March 31, 2021: 9.05% p.a.) and the same is 
secured against tangible/ intangible assets and movable/ immovable assets and personal guarantee of two directors. 
As on March 31, 2021, Fixed Deposits backed Bank Overdraft working capital limits (borrowing in INR) carried interest in 
the range of 4.2% p.a. to 6.3% p.a.. The security for the same is in the form of lien on fixed deposits amounting to H 5,170.
(ii)	 Working capital demand loan (borrowing in INR) carry interest at I-MCLR and “spread” per annum. As on the March 31, 
2021 MCLR is 7.25% p.a. and spread is 1% p.a. As on March 31, 2021, this was secured by way of hypothecation on the 
entire current assets (excluding Mutual Funds, FD & Bonds), lien on Fixed Deposits H 1,400 and backed by irrevocable 
and personal guarantee of Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Chairman, Managing Director and CEO.
Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Lease 
Liabilities
borrowings
Lease 
Liabilities
borrowings
Opening debt
 671 
 5,449 
 2,194 
 2,087 
Non cash adjustments#
 1,859 
 - 
 (1,177)
 - 
Cash flows
 (316)
 (5,448)
 (346)
 3,362 
Interest expense
 86 
 294 
 123 
 216 
Interest paid
 (86)
 (294)
 (123)
 (216)
Closing debt
 2,214 
 1 
 671 
 5,449 
#includes termination of leases
222
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 242
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
12 (b) Trade payables
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Current 
Trade payables 
 7,277 
 5,384 
Trade payables to related parties (Refer note 26) 
 158 
 466 
Trade payables to other parties (Refer note 38) 
 79 
 202 
 7,514 
 6,052 
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
(i)	 Total Outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises 
 229 
 56 
(ii)	 Total Outstanding dues other than (i) above 
 7,285 
 5,996 
 7,514 
 6,052 
Trade Payables ageing schedule for the year ended March 31, 2022
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
Dues
Not due
less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)	 Undisputed - MSME
 17 
 73 
 115 
 5 
 * 
 1 
 211 
(ii)	 Undisputed - Others
 5,693 
 397 
 871 
 43 
 72 
 126 
 7,202 
(iii)	Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 10 
 2 
 5 
 1 
 - 
 18 
(iv)	Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 5 
 9 
 36 
 33 
 83 
Total
 5,710 
 480 
 993 
 62 
 109 
 160 
 7,514 
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
Dues
Not due
less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
(i)	 Undisputed - MSME
 - 
 11 
 2 
 12 
 1 
 1 
 27 
(ii)	 Undisputed - Others
 3,543 
 508 
 1,390 
 266 
 134 
 32 
 5,873 
(iii)	Disputed dues – MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 27 
 2 
 - 
 29 
(iv)	Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 13 
 63 
 24 
 23 
 123 
Total
 3,543 
 519 
 1,405 
 368 
 161 
 56 
 6,052 
Trade Payables ageing schedule for the year ended March 31, 2021
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
223
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 243
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
12 (c) Other financial liabilities
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Current
Payable to merchants#
 11,931 
 527 
Payable on purchase of fixed assets
 427 
 217 
Employee benefits payable
 1,256 
 1,369 
Other amount received from customers
 1,597 
 2,016 
Other amount received from customers- related parties (Refer note 26)
 - 
 * 
Clients and Exchanges payables
 2,172 
 693 
Others
 363 
 190 
Others- related parties (Refer note 26)
 133 
 83 
Others- Other parties (Refer note 38)
 126 
 58 
 18,005 
 5,153 
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Statutory dues payable:
	
Tax deducted at source payable
 1,124 
 526 
	
GST Payable
 3,101 
 1,852 
	
Tax collected at source payable
 100 
 68 
	
Provident fund payable
 100 
 58 
	
Other statutory dues
 59 
 58 
Other payable - related parties (Refer note 26)
 30 
 81 
 4,514 
 2,643 
#The Group uses a Nodal Account to receive money through debit/credit card and net banking transactions towards all transactions happening on its 
portal, as well as to settle the respective merchants. The amounts collected but yet to be transferred to merchants are netted off with nodal account 
having balance of H 11,013 (March 31, 2021: H 8,455). Gross payable to merchant includes payable to related parties (refer note 26) H 2,328 (March 31, 
2021: H 722).
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities:
(i)	 Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and generally carry credit period of 30 days.
Note: All financial liabilities are carried at amortized cost
13 (a). Other current liabilities 
13(b). Contract liabilities
Particulars
Non-current
Current
As at
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
 Contract liabilities 
 3,165 
 4,119 
 2,076 
 1,581 
 3,165 
 4,119 
 2,076 
 1,581 
(i)	 For related party and other party balances, Refer note 26 and 38, respectively.
224
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 244
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Year ended 
March 31, 2021 
 Contract liabilities recognized as revenue during the year 
 1,054 
 1,117 
 1,054 
 1,117 
13(b). Contract liabilities (contd..)
Revenue recognized in relation to carried forward contract liabilities
14. Revenue from operations 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Year ended 
March 31, 2021 
Revenue from contracts with customers
 Sale of services 
 49,625 
 28,024 
Other operating revenue
 Incentive income# 
 117 
 - 
 49,742 
 28,024 
#There are no unfulfilled conditions or other contingencies attached to these grants.
Disaggregated details of revenue:
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Year ended 
March 31, 2021 
(i)	 Nature of services  
	
	
Payment and financial services 
 38,577 
 21,092 
	
	
Commerce and cloud services 
 11,048 
 6,932 
 49,625 
 28,024 
(ii)	Timing of revenue recognition 
	
	
Services provided at a point in time 
 46,862 
 27,069 
	
	
Services provided over a period of time 
 2,763 
 955 
 49,625 
 28,024 
15. Other income 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Year ended 
March 31, 2021 
Interest income
	
-on bank deposits 
 2,297 
 1,660 
	
-Interest on Income tax refund 
 3 
 251 
	
-Interest on Inter corporate loans - measured at amortized cost 
 65 
 23 
	
-Interest Income on unwinding of discount - financial assets measured at 
amortized cost 
 92 
 218 
	
-Interest Income on debentures -measured at amortized cost 
 70 
 459 
	
-Interest income on security deposit 
 86 
 87 
Fair value gain on financial instruments measured at FVTPL (net) 
 215 
 899 
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (net) 
 7 
 18 
Liabilities no longer required written back 
 19 
 30 
Miscellanous Income 
 47 
 199 
 2,901 
 3,844 
225
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 245
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
16. Employee benefits expense 
17. Depreciation and amortization expense 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Year ended 
March 31, 2021 
Salaries, bonus and incentives 
 14,848 
 10,304 
Contribution to provident and other funds 
 499 
 290 
Share based payment expenses (Refer note 25) 
 8,093 
 1,125 
Leave encashment expense 
 560 
 (19)
Gratuity expenses (Refer note 27) 
 146 
 106 
Staff welfare expenses 
 173 
 43 
 24,319 
 11,849 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Year ended 
March 31, 2021 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (Refer note 3(a)) 
 2,116 
 1,458 
Depreciation on right-of-use-assets# (Refer note 3(b)) 
 271 
 256 
Amortization of intangible assets (Refer note 4) 
 86 
 71 
 2,473 
 1,785 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Year ended 
March 31, 2021 
Interest 
	
- Interest and finance charges on lease liabilities (Refer note 3(b)) 
 86 
 123 
	
- on borrowings at amortised cost 
 294 
 216 
	
- Interest on late deposit of statutory dues 
 2 
 1 
	
- on others 
 12 
 8 
 394 
 348 
#This amount is net of cross charge of H 2 (March 31, 2021: H 5) (Refer note 3(b)).
18. Finance costs
226
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 246
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Year ended 
March 31, 2021 
Connectivity and content fees
 2,259 
 1,819 
Legal and professional fees
 1,279 
 818 
Subcontract expenses
 879 
 692 
Contest, ticketing and FASTag expenses
 516 
 681 
Logistic, deployment & collection cost
 667 
 374 
Provision for advances
 62 
 19 
Loss allowance for financial assets
 432 
 428 
Trade receivables/advance written off
 391 
 67 
Repair and maintenance
 347 
 198 
Insurance
 170 
 119 
Rent (Refer note 29)
 100 
 92 
Communication costs
 41 
 76 
Rates and taxes
 108 
 78 
Travelling and conveyance
 130 
 56 
Exchange differences (net)
 67 
 36 
Bank Charges
 25 
 30 
Goods and services tax expense off
 19 
 11 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure (Refer note 41)
 14 
 4 
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets written off 
 11 
 3 
Miscellaneous expenses
 217 
 256 
 7,734 
 5,857 
19. Other expenses 
(i)	 Legal and professional fees includes
	
a)	
an amount of H 59 (March 31, 2021 : H Nil) as remuneration to non-executive and independent directors.
	
b)	 an amount of H 49 (March 31, 2021 : H 68) as payment to a Law firm in which one of the non-executive and 
independent director is interested. Further, payment of H 1 (March 31, 2021: H Nil) to the said firm which is in the 
nature of share issue expenses has been adjusted with securities premium account.
20. Exceptional items
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Year ended 
March 31, 2021 
Gain on sale of investment in subsidiaries (Refer note (b) below)
 - 
 19 
Provision for impairment of investments in associates (Refer notes (c) below)
 - 
 (300)
Impairment of Goodwill (Refer note (a) below and note 36)
 (24)
 - 
 (24)
 (281)
a)	
The Group basis its assessment of future business projections of Orbgen Technologies Private Limited had recognized 
provision for impairment in the carrying value of its goodwill of H 24. The impairment loss for Orbgen Technologies 
Private Limited was based on the equity value calculated based on cash flow projections with the business plan used 
for impairment testing using discounted cash flow method (Refer note 36).
b)	 During previous year, the Group has lost its control on its two subsidiaries i.e. Paytm Insuretech Private Limited (Formerly 
known as QorQl Private Limited) (‘PIPL’) and Paytm Financial Services Limited (‘PFSL’) on dilution of its interest in these 
entities. The Group has recognised the remaining interest held in these entities on fair value and recognised gain of H 20 
and loss of H 1 for PIPL and PFSL, respectively.
c)	
During previous year, the Group basis its assessment of future business projections of its associate, Eatgood Technologies 
Private Limited, has recognized provision of H 300 for impairment in the carrying value of its investment.
227
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 247
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
21. Earnings per shares (EPS)
Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent by the 
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted 
average number of equity shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of equity shares that would 
be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential equity shares into equity shares. 
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted EPS computations:
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Year ended 
March 31, 2021 
Loss attributable to equity holders for basic and diluted earnings
 (23,929)
 (16,961)
Weighted average number of equity shares for basic and diluted EPS#
 621,763,714 
 601,971,990 
Earnings per share (J per share of J 1 each)
Basic
 (38)
 (28)
Diluted*
 (38)
 (28)
* In view of losses during the current year and previous year, the options which are anti-dilutive have been ignored in the calculation of diluted earnings 
per share. Accordingly, there is no variation between basic and diluted earnings per share.
# Pursuant to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Holding Company held on June 30, 2021, each equity share of 
face value of H 10 per share was sub-divided into ten equity shares of face value of H 1 per share, with effect from record date, i.e., June 30,2021. 
Consequently, the basic and diluted earnings per share have been computed for current year and previous year on the basis of the new number of 
equity shares in accordance with Ind AS 33, Earning per share.
22. Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
The preparation of the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make judgements, estimates 
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the accompanying 
disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in 
outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
Estimates and assumptions
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have 
a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next 12 months, 
are described below.
Deferred taxes and Income taxes
Deferred tax assets can be recognised for deductible temporary differences (including unused tax losses) only to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilized. 
Most of the companies forming part of the Group are yet to generate operating profits, Management has assessed that as 
at March 31, 2022 it is not probable that such deferred tax assets can be realised in excess of available taxable temporary 
differences. Management re-assesses unrecognized deferred tax assets at each reporting date and recognizes to the extent 
that it has become probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. For details about 
deferred tax assets, refer note 28.	
During FY 2019-20 (AY 2020-21) a shareholder of the Holding Company holding 30.33% of shares of the Holding Company has 
transferred its shareholding to its group company (both entities being 100% subsidiaries of the same ultimate parent entity). 
Based on advice from the Holding Company’s tax experts, Management has assessed that a mere change in shareholding 
within the same group will not be an affirmative position to say that the shareholding has been changed. Further, since 
228
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 248
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
the shares of the Group carrying not less than fifty-one percent of the voting power were beneficially held by persons, i.e. 
ultimate holding company of the aforesaid entities, who beneficially held shares of the Holding Company carrying not less 
than fifty-one percent of the voting power on the last day of the year or years in which the loss was incurred, the Group 
shall be entitled to carry forward and set off these losses against the taxable income of future years in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 79 of the Income Tax Act, 1961. (refer note 28)
Defined benefit plans (gratuity benefits)
The cost of the defined benefit gratuity plan and the present value of the gratuity obligation are determined using actuarial 
valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions that may differ from actual developments in the 
future. These include the determination of the discount rate, future salary increases and mortality rates. Due to the 
complexities involved in the valuation and its long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in 
these assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. 
In determining the appropriate discount rate for plans operated , the management considers the interest rates of government 
bonds. The mortality rate is based on publicly available mortality tables. The mortality tables tend to change only at interval 
in response to demographic changes. Future salary increases and gratuity increases are based on expected future inflation 
rates. For further details about gratuity obligations, refer note 27.
Fair value measurement of financial instruments
When the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the consolidated balance sheet cannot be 
measured based on quoted prices in active markets, their fair value is measured using valuation techniques including the 
DCF model, Price of Recent Investment (PORI) method and Comparable Company Multiples (CCM) method. The inputs to 
these models are taken from observable markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is 
required in establishing fair values. For further details about Fair value measurement, refer note 31.
Impairment of financial assets	
The Group assesses on a forward looking basis the expected credit risks associated with its assets carried at amortized 
cost. The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk. Note 32 
details how the Group determines whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.
Impairment reviews
Goodwill is tested for impairment at-least on an annual basis or when events that occur / changes in circumstances indicate 
that the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying value. In calculating the value in use, the Group is required to 
make judgements, estimates and assumptions inter-alia concerning the growth in EBITDA, long-term growth rates; discount 
rates to reflect the risks involved. Also, judgement is involved in determining the CGU for allocation of the goodwill.  For 
details about impairment reviews, refer note 36.
Incentives
The Group provide incentives to users in various forms including cashbacks to promote its platform. Incentives to  users to 
whom the Group has a performance obligation is recorded as a reduction of revenue to the extent of the revenue earned. 
For the incentives to other transacting users to whom the Group has no performance obligation, management is required to 
determine whether the incentives are in substance a payment on behalf of the merchants and should therefore be recorded 
as a reduction of revenue or as marketing and promotional expenses. Some of the factors considered in management’s 
evaluation of such incentives being payments on behalf of  merchants include whether the incentives are given at the 
Group’s discretion, contractual agreements with the merchants, business strategy and objectives and design of the incentive 
program(s), etc.
22. Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions (Contd..)
229
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 249
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
23. Group information
A.	 Entities over which Group exercises control
	
The Group’s subsidiaries as at March 31, 2022 are set out below. Unless otherwise stated, they have share capital 
consisting solely of equity shares that are held directly by the Group, and the proportion of ownership interests held 
equals the voting rights held by the Group.
	
The consolidated financial statements of the Group includes subsidiaries listed in the table below:
Name
Country of 
incorporation/  
Place of 
business
Ownership interest held by the 
group
Ownership interest held by non-
controlling interest
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Indian subsidiaries
One 97 Communications India 
Limited 
India
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Paytm Financial Services 
Limited (till February 22, 2021) 
(refer note (ii) below)
India
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Wasteland Entertainment 
Private Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Mobiquest Mobile 
Technologies Private Limited 
('MQ') (refer note (i) and (vii) 
below)
India
66.34%
65.71%
33.66%
34.29%
Urja Money Private Limited 
('Urja') (refer note (vi) below)
India
83.34%
67.47%
16.66%
32.53%
Little Internet Private Limited 
('Little')
India
62.53%
62.53%
37.47%
37.47%
Paytm Entertainment Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Paytm Money Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Paytm Insuretech Private 
Limited (Formerly known as 
QoRQL Private Limited) (till 
June 17, 2020) (refer note (ii) 
below)
India
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Orbgen Technologies Private 
Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Paytm Services Private Limited 
(Formerly known as Balance 
Technology Private Limited)
India
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Paytm Payments Services 
Limited (w.e.f October 10, 
2020)
India
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Paytm Insurance Broking 
Private Limited
India
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Foreign Subsidiaries
One97 Communications 
Nigeria Limited
Nigeria
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
One97 Communications FZ-
LLC
Dubai
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
230
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 250
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Name
Country of 
incorporation/  
Place of 
business
Ownership interest held by the 
group
Ownership interest held by non-
controlling interest
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
One97 Communications 
Singapore Private Limited 
('OCSPL') (refer note (viii) 
below)
Singapore
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
One97 USA Inc.
USA
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Subsidiaries of Subsidiaries
One97 Communications 
Rwanda Private Limited 
(subsidiary of OCSPL)
Rwanda
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
One97 Communications 
Tanzania Private Limited 
(subsidiary of OCSPL)
Tanzania
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
One97 Communications 
Bangladesh Private Limited 
(subsidiary of OCSPL)
Bangladesh
70.00%
70.00%
30.00%
30.00%
One97 Uganda Limited 
(subsidiary of OCSPL)
Uganda
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
One97 Ivory Coast SA 
(subsidiary of OCSPL)
Ivory Coast
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
One97 Benin SA (subsidiary of 
OCSPL)
Benin
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Paytm Labs Inc. (subsidiary of 
OCSPL)
Canada
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
One97 Communications 
Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. (subsidiary 
of OCSPL)
Malaysia
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
One Nine Seven 
Communication Nepal Private 
Limited (subsidiary of OCSPL)
Nepal
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
One Nine Seven Digital 
Solutions Limited (subsidiary 
of OCSPL)
Kenya
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
One Nine Seven 
Communications Saudi 
Arabia For Communication 
and Information Technology 
(subsidiary of OCSPL)
Saudi
100.00%
100.00%
 - 
 - 
Xceed IT Solution Private 
Limited (subsidiary of MQ)
India
66.34%
65.71%
33.66%
34.29%
Nearbuy India Private Limited 
(subsidiary of Little)
India
62.53%
62.53%
37.47%
37.47%
Fincollect Services Private 
Limited (subsidiary of Urja)
India
83.34%
67.47%
16.66%
32.53%
23. Group information (Contd)
231
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 251
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
B.	 Entities over which the Group exercise significant influence - Associates
	
The Group’s associates as at March 31, 2022 are set out below. Unless otherwise stated, the entities listed below 
have share capital consisting solely of equity shares which are held directly by the group. The proportion of ownership 
interest is the same as the proportion of voting rights held except otherwise stated.
C.	 Joint Ventures of Paytm Entertainment Limited
23. Group information (Contd)
Name
Country of 
incorporation/  
Place of business
%  equity interest
Accounting 
method
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Paytm Payments Bank Limited  
(refer note (iv) below)
India
49.00%
49.00%
Equity method
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited 
(Formerly known as QoRQL Private 
Limited) (w.e.f June 18, 2020)  
(refer note (ii) below)
India
32.45%
48.98%
Equity method
Paytm General Insurance Limited
India
49.00%
49.00%
Equity method
Paytm Life Insurance Limited
India
49.00%
49.00%
Equity method
Paytm Financial Services Limited (w.e.f 
February 23, 2021) (refer note (ii) below)
India
48.78%
48.78%
Equity method
Foster Payment Networks Private Limited 
(w.e.f March 26, 2021) (subsidiary of 
Paytm Financial Services Limited)
India
48.80%
48.80%
Equity method
Admirable Software Limited (w.e.f. August 
17, 2021) (subsidiary of Paytm Financial 
Services Limited)
India
48.78%
 - 
Equity method
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited 
(refer note (i) below)
India
26.57%
26.57%
Equity method
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited 
(refer note (i) below)
India
23.24%
22.20%
Equity method
Loginext Solutions Private Limited (till 
January 1, 2021) (refer note (iii) below)
India
 - 
 - 
-
Socomo Technologies Private Limited 
(refer note (i) below)
India
12.75%
11.32%
Equity method
Name
Country of 
incorporation/  
Place of business
%  equity interest
Accounting 
method
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Paytm First Games Private Limited (refer 
note (v) below)
India
55.00%
55.00%
Equity method
Paytm First Games Singapore Pte. Ltd. 
(wholly owned subsidiary of Paytm First 
Games Private Limited)
Singapore
55.00%
55.00%
Equity method
Paytm Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd. 
(w.e.f. October 13, 2020) (wholly owned 
subsidiary of Paytm First Games Private 
Limited)
China
55.00%
55.00%
Equity method
232
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 252
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
23. Group information (Contd)
D.	 Entities having significant influence over the Group :- 
	
SAIF III Mauritius Company Limited
	
Elevation Capital V Limited (Formerly known as SAIF Partners India V Limited)
	
SAIF Partners India IV Limited
	
Elevation Capital V FII Holdings Limited (Formerly known as SAIF India V FII Holdings Limited)
	
ANTFIN (Netherlands) Holding B.V.
	
Alipay Labs (Singapore) Pte Limited
	
SVF India Holdings (Cayman) Limited
	
SVF Panther (Cayman) Limited
	
Alibaba.com Singapore E-Commerce Private Limited (till November 17, 2021)
	
Notes:
	
(i)	 The entities have issued preference shares as well to the Holding Company.
	
(ii)	 The Group lost its control over the entity on dilution of interest, however, the Holding Company still exercises 
significant influence over the same.
	
(iii)	 During the previous year, the Group ceased to have significant influence over the entity.
	
(iv)	 Including 10% (March 31, 2021: 10%) held through One 97 Communications India Limited. As per Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949, voting rights in a banking Company are capped at 26% in case the investor holds more than 26% in the bank.
	
(v)	 The entity is into business of online gaming. It is a strategic investment which utilises group’s knowledge and 
expertise in online space.
	
(vi)	 Including 15.87% (March 31, 2021: Nil) held through Admirable Software Limited.
	
(vii)	Including 0.63% (March 31, 2021: Nil) held through Admirable Software Limited.
	
(viii)	Including 43.75% (March 31, 2021: 43.75%) held through One 97 Communications India Limited.
233
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 253
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
24. Investment in Associates and Joint ventures
A.	 The following table illustrates the summarised financial information of the Group’s investment in Associates.
	
As at March 31, 2022
Particulars
Paytm 
Payments 
Bank Limited
Paytm General 
Insurance 
Limited
Paytm Life 
Insurance 
Limited
Infinity Transoft 
Private Limited
Eatgood 
Technologies 
Private Limited
Paytm Financials 
Services Limited
Paytm 
Insuretech 
Private Limited
Total
Current assets
 75,227 
 1 
 1 
 57 
 194 
 982 
 48 
 76,509 
Non-current assets
 18,838 
 - 
 - 
 7 
 28 
 167 
 2 
 19,041 
Current liabilities
 (47,695)
 (55)
 * 
 (62)
 (162)
 (848)
 (3)
 (48,825)
Non-current liabilities
 (41,334)
 (2)
 - 
 (107)
 (39)
 (201)
 * 
 (41,683)
Employee share based payment reserve 
 (1,054)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,054)
Non-controlling interest
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (52)
 - 
 (52)
Equity
 3,982 
 (57)
 1 
 (105)
 21 
 48 
 46 
 3,936 
Proportion of the Group’s ownership
49.00%
49.00%
49.00%
26.57%
23.24%
48.78%
32.45%
Group's share in equity
 1,956 
 - 
 * 
 (28)
 6 
 24 
 15 
 1,974 
Goodwill/ (Capital Reserves)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 107 
 487 
 (20)
 (15)
 559 
Provision for impairment of investment
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (300)
 - 
 - 
 (300)
Total Carrying amount of the investment#
 1,956 
 - 
 * 
 79 
 193 
 4 
 - 
 2,233 
Particulars
Paytm 
Payments 
Bank Limited
Paytm General 
Insurance 
Limited
Paytm Life 
Insurance 
Limited
Infinity Transoft 
Private Limited
Eatgood 
Technologies 
Private Limited
Paytm Financials 
Services Limited
Paytm 
Insuretech 
Private Limited
Total
Revenue
 22,179 
 - 
 - 
 45 
 458 
 29 
 16 
 22,728 
Total comprehensive income for the year
 (103)
 (6)
 * 
 (28)
 (49)
 (30)
 (1)
 (218)
Group’s share of profit / (loss) for the year
 (50)
 - 
 * 
 (7)
 (12)
 (15)
 - 
 (85)
Unrecognised share of losses
 - 
 3 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 * 
 3 
Contingent Liabilities, commitments and 
guarantees
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
For the year ended March 31, 2022
234
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 254
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Paytm 
Payments 
Bank Limited
Paytm General 
Insurance 
Limited
Paytm Life 
Insurance 
Limited
Infinity Transoft 
Private Limited
Eatgood 
Technologies 
Private Limited
Paytm Financials 
Services Limited
Paytm 
Insuretech 
Private Limited
Total
Current assets
 57,877 
 * 
 1 
 42 
 136 
 904 
 21 
 58,981 
Non-current assets
 5,838 
 - 
 - 
 25 
 44 
 * 
 * 
 5,907 
Current liabilities
 (33,101)
 (59)
 * 
 (23)
 (92)
 (813)
 (1)
 (34,089)
Non-current liabilities
 (25,789)
 (1)
 - 
 (107)
 (8)
 - 
 - 
 (25,905)
Employee share based payment reserve 
 (738)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (738)
Non-controlling interest
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (50)
 - 
 (50)
Equity
 4,087 
 (60)
 1 
 (63)
 80 
 41 
 20 
 4,106 
Proportion of the Group’s ownership
49.00%
49.00%
49.00%
26.57%
22.20%
48.78%
48.98%
Group's share in equity
 2,006 
 - 
 * 
 (17)
 18 
 19 
 10 
 2,037 
Goodwill/ (Capital Reserves)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 103 
 487 
 - 
 (10)
 580 
Provision for impairment of investment
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (300)
 - 
 - 
 (300)
Total Carrying amount of the investment#
 2,006 
 - 
 * 
 86 
 205 
 19 
 - 
 2,317 
Particulars
Paytm 
Payments 
Bank Limited
Paytm General 
Insurance 
Limited
Paytm Life 
Insurance 
Limited
Infinity Transoft 
Private Limited
Eatgood 
Technologies 
Private Limited
Paytm Financials 
Services Limited
Paytm 
Insuretech 
Private Limited
Total
Revenue
 19,875 
 - 
 - 
 45 
 548 
 1 
 3 
 20,472 
Total comprehensive income for the year
 188 
 (10)
 * 
 (38)
 (162)
 (1)
 - 
 (23)
Group’s share of profit / (loss) for the year
 93 
 (5)
 * 
 (10)
 (35)
 (1)
 - 
 42 
Unrecognised share of losses
 - 
 59 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2 
 60 
Contingent Liabilities, commitments and 
guarantees
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2021
For the year ended March 31, 2021
#The Group recognizes share of losses on associates to the extent of its interest, post which the Group discontinues recognizing its further losses.
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
24. Investment in Associates and Joint ventures (Contd..)
235
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 255
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Paytm First Games Private Limited 
(consolidated)
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Current assets
- Cash and cash equivalents
 394 
 1,137 
- Other assets
 528 
 262 
Total current assets
 922 
 1,399 
Total non-current assets
 720 
 552 
Current liabilities
- Financial liabilities (excluding trade payables)
 (91)
 (1,509)
- Other liabilities
 (1,032)
 (855)
Total current liabilities
 (1,123)
 (2,364)
Non-current liabilities
- Financial liabilities (excluding trade payables)
 (2,212)
 - 
- Other liabilities
 (10)
 (9)
Total non-current liabilities
 (2,222)
 (9)
Fair value impact on borrowings (net of deferred tax impact)
 (393)
 - 
Employee share based payment reserve 
 (395)
 (317)
Net assets
 (2,490)
 (739)
Proportion of the Group’s ownership
55.00%
55.00%
Carrying amount of the investment
 (1,369)
 (410)
Investment recognised for ESOP expenses
 158 
 80 
Deemed investment
 296 
 - 
Total Carrying amount of the investment #
 (915)
 (330)
Particulars
Paytm First Games Private Limited 
(consolidated)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
For the year ended 
March 31, 2021
Revenue
 3,895 
 1,493 
Interest Income
 64 
 28 
Depreciation and amortisation
 70 
 27 
Interest expense
 178 
 30 
Income tax expense
 (119)
 - 
(Loss) for the year
 (1,743)
 (2,019)
Other comprehensive income
 (7)
 (2)
Total comprehensive income for the year
 (1,750)
 (2,021)
Group’s share of profit / (loss) for the year #
 (374)
 (782)
Unrecognised share of losses
 (589)
 (330)
Contingent Liabilities, commitments and guarantees
 - 
 - 
24. Investment in Associates and Joint ventures (Contd..)
B.	 The following table illustrates the summarised financial information of the Group’s investment in 
joint venture.
# The net worth of Paytm First Games Private Limited, a joint venture of the Group, has been fully eroded with net current liabilities. The carrying 
value of the share of investment in the consolidated financial statements is reduced to ‘Nil’ as the group is not liable to contribute in excess of  
their contribution.
The management has concluded that the Group doesn’t control Paytm First Games Private Limited  (formerly known as Gamepind Entertainment 
Private Limited) even if it holds more than half of the voting rights of the investee entity. As per management’s judgement and evaluation,  the Group 
doesn’t have unilateral ability to direct the relevant activities.  The Group and other investor has ability to jointly direct the relevant activities of the 
investee entity by virtue of shareholder’s agreement and hence considered to be a joint venture.
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
236
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 256
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
25. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP)
(A)	One97 Employees Stock Option Scheme 2019 (ESOP 2019 Scheme)
	
The Holding Company introduced One97 Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019 for the benefit of employees as approved 
by the Board of Directors in the meeting held on 04th September 2019 and by shareholders in the Annual General 
Meeting held on 30th September 2019 wherein the Nomination and Remuneration Committee has been authorized to 
grant share-based stock options to eligible employees of the Holding Company, its subsidiaries and associates under 
the ESOP 2019 Scheme. The maximum number of Employee Stock Options under ESOP 2019 Scheme shall not exceed 
46,455,832* (Refer Note 1 & 2 below) equity shares. These Stock Options will generally vest between a minimum of one 
to a maximum of five years from the grant date subject to achievement of certain performance criteria. 
 
Significant changes/modifications in the ESOP 2019 Scheme during FY 2020-21 & FY 2021-22
	
1)	
Pursuant to the approval of Shareholders of the Holding Company at the Annual General Meeting held on June 30, 
2021, each equity share of the Holding Company having face value of H 10 each was sub divided into ten equity 
shares of face value of H 1 per share with effect from June 30, 2021. Accordingly, all outstanding Employee Stock 
Options and remaining Employee Stock Option Pool have also been sub divided in the similar proportion.
	
2)	 Shareholders of the Holding Company in the Extra Ordinary General Meeting held on September 2, 2021 has 
approved increase in ESOP Pool by adding 37,000,000 options. Accordingly, total ESOP Pool for ESOP 2019 Scheme 
stands at 46,455,832. 
	
3)	 During the year ended March 31, 2021, the Holding Company had amended vesting percentage of ESOPs over 5 
years of vesting schedule vide a resolution passed by the members of the Holding Company in an Extra-Ordinary 
General Meeting dated March 26, 2021. All other terms and conditions remains the same as the original ESOP  
2019 Scheme.
Year of Vesting
Old Vesting 
Schedule 
Revised Vesting 
Schedule 
Year 1
10%
10%
Year 2
15%
20%
Year 3
20%
20%
Year 4
25%
25%
Year 5
30%
25%
Total
100%
100%
	
	
*After considering impact of share sub division
(B)	One97 Employees Stock Option Scheme 2008 (ESOP 2008 Scheme)
	
The Holding Company introduced One 97 Employee Stock Option 2008 Scheme for the benefit of employees as 
approved by the Board of Directors in the meeting held on September 8, 2008 and by the members in the Extra Ordinary 
General Meeting held on October 22, 2008 wherein Nomination and Remuneration Committee has authorized to grant 
share-based stock options to eligible employees of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries under the ESOP 2008 
Scheme. The maximum number of Employee Stock Options under ESOP 2008 Scheme shall not exceed 14,638,448* 
equity shares. These instruments will generally vest between a minimum of one to a maximum of four years from the 
grant date.
(C)	Details about employee stock options granted, outstanding and other information:
	
1)	
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Holding Company has granted 27,428,285 (March 31, 2021- 3,868,310) 
Employee Stock Options under ESOP 2019 Scheme to Eligible Employees.
	
	
The above grant includes grant of 21,000,000 Employee Stock Options to Managing Director and CEO of the Holding 
Company which is subject to achievement of certain milestones and will vest equally in 4 tranches, having minimum 
vesting period of 24 months, 36 months, 48 months and 60 months for each tranche respectively.
237
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 257
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
	
2)	 The total options outstanding as at March 31, 2022 under ESOP 2008 Scheme are 585,450 and ESOP 2019 Scheme 
are 29,317,167 (March 31, 2021 under ESOP 2008 Scheme – 5,362,100 and ESOP 2019 Scheme – 4,669,180). Scheme-
wise options outstanding are as under:
 
 
ESOP 2008 Scheme
25. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
Grant Date
Number of Options 
outstanding*
Number of Options 
outstanding*
Exercise Price*
March  31, 2022
March  31, 2021
December 31, 2008
-
102,970
1
December 31, 2008
6,425
25,900
5
September 3, 2010
-
2,500
18
December 29, 2012
-
1,272,940
18
April 1, 2014
-
24,670
9
April 1, 2015
-
49,010
9
October 1, 2015
-
64,680
9
April 1, 2016
31,331
561,790
9
October 1, 2016
1,453
537,550
9
April 1, 2017
3,084
995,340
9
October 1, 2017
21,260
166,680
9
April 1, 2018
363,677
1,087,240
9
July 1, 2018
136,530
409,580
9
October 1, 2018
12,387
33,350
9
January 1, 2019
-
-
9
April 1, 2019
9,303
27,900
9
Total
585,450
5,362,100
 
Grant Date
Number of Options 
outstanding*
Number of Options 
outstanding*
Exercise Price*
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
April 1, 2019
268,031
465,420
9
April 1, 2019
-
43,750
9
October 1, 2019
179,728
637,600
9
April 1, 2020
218,797
385,420
9
July 1, 2020
127,428
166,490
9
October 1, 2020
2,194,862
2,970,500
9
April 1, 2021
586,210
-
9
October 1, 2021
4,206,273
 -
9
October 1, 2021
21,000,000
 -
9
October 1, 2021
385,838
 -
1900
October 8, 2021
150,000
 -
9
Total
29,317,167
4,669,180
 
	
	
*After considering impact of share sub division
 
 
ESOP 2019 Scheme
238
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 258
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
25. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
 
3) Movement during the year ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021:
	
	
The following table provides details about the number and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of, and 
movements in, employee stock options during the year:
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2022*
Year ended March 31, 2021*
No of Options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price
No of Options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price
ESOP 2008 Scheme
 
 
 
 
Outstanding at the beginning
5,362,100 
10.97 
7,292,570 
10.19 
Granted during the year
- 
- 
- 
- 
Exercised during the year
4,343,960 
11.43 
613,860 
8.91 
Forfeited during the year
350,020 
8.99 
1,316,610 
9.00 
Cancelled during the year
82,670 
9.00 
- 
- 
Outstanding at the end of the year
585,450 
8.96 
5,362,100 
10.97 
Vested options outstanding at the end of 
the year (exercisable)
434,923 
8.96
4,514,930 
10.97
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2022
Year ended March 31, 2021
No of Options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price
No of Options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price
ESOP 2019 Scheme
 
 
 
 
Outstanding at the beginning
4,669,180 
9 
1,478,130 
9 
Granted during the year
27,428,285 
35.60 
3,868,310 
9 
Exercised during the year
576,261 
9 
23,380 
9 
Forfeited during the year
2,150,327 
9 
653,880 
9 
Cancelled during the year
53,710 
9 
- 
- 
Outstanding at the end of the year
29,317,167 
33.89 
4,669,180 
9 
Vested options outstanding at the end of 
the year (exercisable)
291,732
9 
240,250
9 
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
ESOP 2019 
Plan
ESOP 2008 
Plan
ESOP 2019 
Plan
ESOP 2008 
Plan
Weighted Avg. share price of options 
exercised on the date of exercise  
(H per share)
1,411.82
1,646.04
1,067.01
1,070.83
	
	
*After considering impact of share sub division
	
	
*After considering impact of share sub division
 
4) Details of Weighted average share price of options exercised on the date of exercise are as follows:
239
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 259
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
25. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
ESOP 2019 
Plan
ESOP 2008 
Plan
ESOP 2019 
Plan
ESOP 2008 
Plan
Weighted Avg. remaining life for the 
options outstanding at the end of the year 
(in years)
3.14
0.16
7.48
3.93
 
5) Details of Weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding are as follows: 
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Holding Company has cancelled 67,550* outstanding unvested employee 
stock options and 68,830* outstanding vested Employee Stock options. This cancellation of unvested employee 
stock options resulted into an accelerated share based payment expense of H 39 (included in above charge) in the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2022.
	
	
Details of stock options granted under the One 97 ESOP 2019 Scheme during the year ended on March 31, 2022 
(computed using Discounted Cash Flow, OPM & Black-Scholes model) are as under:
Particulars
Grant Date
Grant Date
April 
1, 2021*
October 1, 
2021
October 1, 
2021
October 1, 
2021**
October 8, 
2021
October 
8, 2021
Share Price (H per share)
           
1,657 
                     
1,891 
                     
1,891 
                     
1,891 
                     
1,891 
                     
1,891 
Fair Value of Options Granted  
(H per option)
1,651
1,883
1,027
1,884
1,883
1,882
Weighted Avg. Exercise Price  
(H per share)
9
9
1900
9
9
9
Vesting Period (in years)
5
5
5
5
5
1
Dividend Yield (%)
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Expected Life (in years)
3.50 - 7.50
1.04 - 5.04
3.50 - 7.50
2.88 - 5.04
1.04 - 5.04
1.04
Risk free interest rate (%)
5.30 - 6.40
4.00 - 5.90
5.30 - 6.40
4.90 - 5.90
4.00 - 6.00
4.00 
Annualized Volatility (%)
45.00 - 
55.30
40.30 - 
51.60
43.20 - 
56.30
44.10 - 
56.20
40.20 - 
51.60
40.20 
	
	
*After considering impact of share sub division
	
	
** Grant of options to Managing Director & CEO
	
	
Details of stock options granted under the One 97 ESOP 2019 Scheme during the year ended on March 31, 2021 
(computed using Discounted Cash Flow & Black-Scholes model) are as under:
	
	
*After considering impact of share sub division
Particulars
Grant Date
Grant Date
April 1, 2020
July 1, 2020
July 1, 2020 October 1,2020
Share Price (H per share)*
           1,127                   1,067                   1,067                   1,067 
Fair Value of Options Granted  
(H per option)*
1,121
1,059
1,059
1,059
Weighted Avg. Exercise Price  
(H per share)*
9
9
9
9
Vesting Period (in years)
5
5
1
5
Dividend Yield (%)
                     -  
- 
- 
- 
Expected Life (in years)
3.50 - 7.50
3.00 - 5.00
3.00 
3.00 - 5.00
Risk free interest rate (%)
5.60 - 6.80
4.40 - 5.20
4.40 
4.90 - 5.30
Annualized Volatility (%)
37.10 - 53.00
43.20 - 46.80
43.20 
42.40 - 46.90
240
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 260
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
25. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
As at 
March 31, 2022 
As at 
March 31, 2021 
MSOP
5.73
6.73
ESOP
6.00
7.00
	
	
Notes:
	
	
1.	
Weighted average share price is based on the value of Equity Shares arrived at by using Discounted Cash 
Flow Method, OPM Method or Backsolve method and share prices based on secondary transactions,  
where available.
	
	
2.	
Dividend yield is considered zero, as no dividend payout is expected in the foreseeable future.
	
	
3.	
Risk free return is based on the yield to maturity of Indian treasury securities, with a maturity corresponding to 
the expected term of ESOP.
	
	
4.	
Annualized volatility is based on the median weekly volatility of selected comparable companies for a time 
period commensurate with the expected term.
 
 
Little Internet Private Limited
	
	
Little Internet Private Limited has introduced Employee Stock Option Scheme 2017 (“ESOS 2017”) with effect from 
December 21, 2017 to enable the employees of Little Internet Private Limited to participate in the future growth and 
success of Little Internet Private Limited. ESOS 2017 is operated at the discretion of the Board.
	
	
The options which confer a right but not an obligation on the employee to apply for equity shares of Little Internet 
Private Limited once the terms and conditions set forth in the Employee Stock Option Scheme 2017 (“ESOS 2017”) 
and the option agreement have been met. Vesting of options would be subject to continued employment with Little 
Internet Private Limited and meeting the requisite performance parameters. The exercise price of the options is  
H Nil.  The other relevant terms of the grant are as below: -
	
	
Vesting period	
	 1 to 4 years
	
	
Exercise period	 	 10 years (including the vesting period)
	
	
The details of activity under the plans are summarized below:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2022
As at March 31, 2021
ESOP
MSOP
ESOP
MSOP
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
7,821
1,362,162
16,745
1,505,386
Options granted
-
-
-
-
Options Exercised
-
-
-
-
Options forfeited
-
-
8,924
143,224
Outstanding at the end of the year
7,821
1,362,162
7,821
1,362,162
Options vested and exercisable
7,821
1,362,162
7,821
1,338,291
	
	
Weighted average exercise price for MSOPs and ESOPs is H Nil
	
	
The weighted average fair value of options granted in March 31, 2021 and March 31, 2022 was H 163. 
	
	
The weighted average remaining contractual life for these options is given below: -
241
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 261
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
25. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
	
	
Little Internet Private Limited has adopted the fair value method using Black-Scholes Model in respect of stock 
options granted. The value of underlying shares has been determined by an independent valuer.
	
	
The valuation of the share options granted is based on the following assumptions:
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
                    397 
                 5,459 
Granted
                      -  
                     -  
Exercised
                      -  
               (2,105)
Cancelled
                   (397)
               (2,957)
Outstanding at the end of the year
                      -  
                   397 
Exercisable at the end of the year
                      -  
                   397 
Particulars
March 31, 2022 
March 31, 2021 
Risk-free interest rate (% p.a.)
7.50
7.50
Expected life of options (years)
4.41
4.41
Expected volatility (%)
42.41
42.41
Dividend yield (%)
    -  
    -  
	
	
As at March 31, 2021, Little Internet Private Limited had 1,362,261 (as at March 31, 2020: 1,505,386) outstanding 
Management Stock Options (MSOP’s) under its MSOP plan, out of which 1,362,261 (as at March 31, 2020: 1,338,291) 
were vested and exercisable as on that date. During the year ended on March 31, 2022, Nil MSOP’s (year ended 
March 31, 2021: 23,871 MSOP’s) were vested and exercisable. Further, on account of resignation of remaining 
grantee’s, Nil (for the year ended March 31, 2021: 143,224) unvested MSOP’s were lapsed and H Nil (for the year 
ended March 31, 2021: H 16) pertaining to these unvested options was reversed from employee benefit expenses 
and ESOP reserve.
 
 
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
	
	
Employee Stock Options issued by Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited:
	
	
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited has introduced Employee Stock Option Plan 2017 (“ESOP 2017”) and 
Employee Stock Option Plan 2018 (“ESOP 2018”) with effect from June 14, 2017 and October 01, 2018 respectively, 
to enable the employees of Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited to participate in the future growth and success 
of Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited. ESOP 2017 and ESOP 2018 is operated at the discretion of the Board.
	
	
The options which confer a right but not an obligation on the employee to apply for equity shares of Wasteland 
Entertainment Private Limited once the terms and conditions set forth in the ESOP 2017 and ESOP 2018 and the 
option agreement have been met. Vesting of options would be subject to continued employment with Wasteland 
Entertainment Private Limited and meeting the requisite performance parameters. The exercise price of the options 
is H 10 and H 100 in ESOP 2017 and ESOP 2018 respectively.
	
	
During the current year, Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited has terminated the Employee Stock Option Plan 
2017. During the previous year, Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited had terminated the Employee Stock Option 
Plan 2018.
	
	
Vesting Period - 1 to 4 years
	
	
Exercise Period - 10 years for ESOP 2017 and 5 years for ESOP 2018 (excluding the vesting period)
	
	
The movement in the shares issued for the year ended March 31, 2022 and year ended March 31, 2021 are set out 
below:
242
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 262
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Name
Country of incorporation
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
India
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited (Formerly known as QoRQL Private Limited)  
(w.e.f June 18, 2020)*
India
Foster Payment Networks Private Limited (w.e.f March 26, 2021)  
(subsidiary of Paytm Financial Services Limited)
India
Paytm General Insurance Limited
India
Paytm Life Insurance Limited
India
Paytm Financials Services Limited (w.e.f February 23, 2021)*
India
Admirable Software Limited (w.e.f. August 17, 2021)  
(subsidiary of Paytm Financial Services Limited)
India
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited 
India
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited 
India
Socomo Technologies Private Limited
India
Loginext Solutions Private Limited (till January 1, 2021)#
India
25. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment 
transactions of Holding Company
8,094
1,113
Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment 
transactions (Little Internet Private Limited)
-
(16)
Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment 
transactions (Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited)
-
14
Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment 
transactions (Urja Money Private Limited)
 (1)
*
Other Adjustments
-
14
Total expense arising from share-based payment transactions#
8,093
1,125
	
	
Weighted average exercise price per option is H 10 per option as at March 31, 2022 (March 31, 2021: H 10 per option).
	
	
The weighted average fair value of options granted as at March 31, 2022 was H Nil and March 31, 2021 was H 11,415 
per share.
	
	
The weighted average remaining contractual life for these options as at March 31, 2022 was Nil years and March 31, 
2021 was 10.21 years.
	
	
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited has adopted the fair value method using Black-Scholes Model in respect 
of stock options granted. The value of underlying shares has been determined by an independent valuer.
	
	
The total expense of share based payment expenses pertaining to ESOP plan 2017 for the year ended March 31, 
2022 is H Nil (March 31, 2021: H 13.87) after necessary adjustments.
	
	
Note – The ESOP Plan for Urja Money Private Limited being not material to the group and hence no further information 
is disclosed.
	
	
The expense recognised for employee services received during the year is shown in the following table:
	
	
#the above total consider foreign currency translation adjustment, as applicable for each year.
	
*The Group lost its control over the entity on dilution of interest, however, the Holding Company still exercises significant influence over the same.
	
#During the previous year, the Group ceased to have significant influence over the entity.
26. Related party transactions
A.	 Entities over which company exercise significant influence
243
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 263
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
25. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
Name
Country of incorporation
Paytm First Games Private Limited*
India
Paytm First Games Singapore Pte. Ltd. (wholly owned subsidiary of Paytm First Games 
Private Limited)
Singapore
Paytm Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd. (w.e.f. October 13, 2020) (wholly owned subsidiary 
of Paytm First Games Private Limited)
China
B.	 Key Management Personnel
C.	 Joint Venture of Paytm Entertainment Limited (Wholly owned Subsidiary of One 97 Communications 
Limited)
Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma
Chairman, Managing Director and CEO
Mr. Madhur Deora
Group Chief Financial Officer (w.e.f October 9, 2020 and 
till December 31, 2021) and Chief Financial Officer (w.e.f 
January 1, 2022)
Mr. Vikas Garg
Chief Financial Officer (till December 31, 2021)
	
* The entity is into business of online gaming. It is a strategic investment which utilises group’s knowledge and expertise in online space.
D.	 Entities having significant influence over the Company
	
SAIF III Mauritius Company Limited	
	
Elevation Capital V Limited (Formerly known as SAIF Partners India V Limited)	
	
SAIF Partners India IV Limited	
	
Elevation Capital V FII Holdings Limited (Formerly known as SAIF India V FII Holdings Limited)	
	
ANTFIN (Netherlands) Holding B.V.	
	
Alipay Labs (Singapore) Pte Limited	
	
SVF India Holdings (Cayman) Limited	
	
SVF Panther (Cayman) Limited	
	
Alibaba.com Singapore E-Commerce Private Limited (till November 17, 2021)	
E.	 Relative of Key Management Personnel	
	
Mr. Ajay Shekhar Sharma		
	
	
	
	
	
Brother of Mr. Vijay Shekhar Sharma
244
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 264
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
25. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
Details of transactions with related parties during the year ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 
2021:-
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Rendering of services to related parties
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 10,107 
 8,634 
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 283 
 204 
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited
 3 
 4 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
Socomo Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 - 
 10,394 
 8,842 
Reimbursement of expenses incurred on behalf of related parties
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 751 
 617 
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 156 
 238 
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 * 
 * 
 907 
 855 
Expenses reimbursed to related party
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 2 
 87 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 2 
 - 
Admirable Software Limited
 * 
 - 
 4 
 87 
Interest income earned from related parties
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 2 
 14 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 21 
 2 
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 89 
 20 
 112 
 36 
Other income earned from related parties
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 - 
 122 
 - 
 122 
Interest income earned on Optionally Convertible Debentures ("OCD")  
from related parties
Admirable Software Limited
 11 
 - 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 2 
 - 
 13 
 - 
Purchase of property, plant & equipment from related parties
Alibaba.com Singapore E-Commerce Private Limited
 124 
 - 
 124 
 - 
Sale of property, plant & equipment to related parties
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 * 
 1 
 * 
 1 
Services received from related parties
	
-Payment processing charges
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 12,888 
 9,468 
 12,888 
 9,468 
245
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 265
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
	
-General expenses
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 198 
 374 
Alipay Labs (Singapore) Pte Limited (Refer note (i) below)
 1,459 
 1,057 
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 3 
 - 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 9 
 20 
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited
 16 
 2 
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 21 
 - 
 1,707 
 1,453 
(i) includes H 1,451 (March 31, 2021: H 1,057) pertaining to Software, cloud and 
data centre expenses.
Inter corporate loan given
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 1,613 
 809 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 - 
 450 
 1,613 
 1,259 
Repayment of Inter Corporate Loan
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 841 
 - 
 841 
 - 
Investment in Optionally Convertible Debentures
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 30 
 - 
Admirable Software Limited
 231 
 - 
 261 
 - 
Stock Options granted to employees of Joint Venture
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 78 
 19 
 78 
 19 
Investment in associates
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 - 
 5 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 - 
 82 
 - 
 87 
25. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
Details of balances outstanding with related parties as at March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021:-
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Other financial assets (Other receivable for expenditure incurred)
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 223 
 146 
Alibaba.com Singapore E-Commerce Private Limited
 - 
 1 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 138 
 19 
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited
 * 
 - 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 - 
 * 
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 12 
 * 
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited
 * 
 * 
 373 
 166 
Amount receivable for sale of business (Other financial assets)
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 - 
 138 
 - 
 138 
246
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 266
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
25. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Other current assets
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 1,206 
 2,785 
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 31 
 17 
 1,237 
 2,802 
Inter corporate loan receivable (including accrued interest)
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 471 
 451 
Paytm First Games Private Limited#
 1,679 
 828 
 2,150 
 1,279 
Investments Optionally Convertible Debentures (including accrued interest)
Admirable Software Limited
 241 
 - 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 32 
 - 
 273 
 - 
Amount receivable from payment gateway
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 20,115 
 8,546 
 20,115 
 8,546 
Trade receivables
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 1,297 
 193 
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 147 
 172 
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited
 - 
 * 
 1,444 
 365 
Other financial assets
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 38 
 323 
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited
 - 
 * 
 38 
 323 
Trade payables (including accrued expenses) 
Alipay Labs (Singapore) Pte Limited
 77 
 337 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 51 
 124 
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 3 
 1 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 2 
 - 
Admirable Software Limited
 * 
 - 
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited
 3 
 2 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 1 
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 22 
 * 
 158 
 466 
Other financial liabilities
	
-Payable to merchants
Socomo Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 2,280 
 722 
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 48 
 - 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited
 * 
 * 
 2,328 
 722 
247
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 267
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
	
-Others
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 37 
 83 
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 96 
 - 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 - 
Socomo Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
 133 
 83 
Contract Liabilities
Infinity Transoft Solution Private Limited
 1 
 * 
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 * 
 * 
 1 
 * 
Other Current Liabilities
Paytm First Games Private Limited
 30 
 81 
 30 
 81 
25. Employee Stock Option Schemes (ESOP) (Contd..)
# Excluding Fair Value impact amounting to H 317 (March 31, 2021: Nil)
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
Remuneration to KMP & Relative of Key Management Personnel	
	
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Salaries, bonus and incentives
 103 
 72 
ESOP Expenses
 5,670 
 112 
Total compensation paid 
 5,773 
 184 
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
(i)	 The services provided and received from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s 
length transactions. Outstanding balances at the year end are unsecured and interest free (except for inter corporate 
loan receivable and optionally convertible debentures) and settlement generally occurs in cash. There have been no 
guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables.
(ii)	 The remuneration to the key managerial personnel (‘KMP’) does not include the provisions made for gratuity and leave 
benefits as they are determined on an actuarial basis for the Group as a whole.
(iii)	 The Group has agreed to provide appropriate financial support only if and to the extent required by one of its joint 
venture.
(iv)	 Refer note 19 for details of remuneration to non-excecutive and independent directors and payment to a law firm in 
which one of the non-executive and independent director is interested.
27. Gratuity
The Group provides for gratuity for employees in India as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Employees who are in 
continuous service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The amount of gratuity payable on retirement/termination 
is the employees last drawn basic salary per month computed proportionately for 15 days salary multiplied for the number of 
years of service. The gratuity plan is a funded plan and the Holding company makes contributions to recognised fund/insurer 
in India. The Group does not fully fund the liability and maintains a target level of funding to be maintained over a period of 
time based on estimations of expected gratuity payments. Disclosures given below are as per actuarial valuation report of 
independent actuary.	
248
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 268
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
27. Gratuity (Contd..)
 Defined benefit 
obligation 
 Fair value of 
plan assets # 
Benefit 
liability (Net)
As at April 01, 2021
 413 
 (169)
 244 
Gratuity cost 
charged to 
Statement of Profit 
or Loss
Current Service cost
 129 
 - 
 129 
Net interest expense/ (income)
 28 
 - 
 28 
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included 
in net interest expense)
 - 
 (11)
 (11)
Sub-total included in Statement of Profit or loss
 157 
 (11)
 146 
Remeasurement 
(gains)/
losses in Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Actuarial changes arising from changes in 
demographic assumptions
 - 
 - 
 - 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial 
assumptions
 (10)
 - 
 (10)
Experience adjustments
 29 
 2 
 31 
Sub-total included in OCI
 19 
 2 
 21 
Net liability acquired on transfer of employees
 17 
 - 
 17 
Benefits paid
 (64)
 49 
 (15)
Contributions by employer
 - 
 (120)
 (120)
As at March 31, 2022
 542 
 (249)
 293 
Changes in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets as at March 31, 2021:
 Defined benefit 
obligation 
 Fair value of 
plan assets # 
Benefit 
liability (Net)
As at April 01, 2020
 309 
 (100)
 209 
Gratuity cost 
charged to 
Statement of Profit 
or Loss
Current Service cost
 93 
 - 
 93 
Net interest expense/ (income)
 20 
 - 
 20 
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included 
in net interest expense)
 - 
 (7)
 (7)
Sub-total included in Statement of Profit or loss
 113 
 (7)
 106 
Remeasurement 
(gains)/
losses in Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
Actuarial changes arising from changes in 
demographic assumptions
 - 
 - 
 - 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial 
assumptions
 8 
 - 
 - 
Experience adjustments
 10 
 (1)
 - 
Sub-total included in OCI
 18 
 (1)
 17 
Net liability acquired on transfer of employees
 8 
 - 
 8 
Benefits paid
 (35)
 29 
 (6)
Contributions by employer
 - 
 (90)
 (90)
As at March 31, 2021
 413 
 (169)
 244 
The following tables summarize the components of net benefit expenses recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit 
and Loss and the funded status and amount recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Changes in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets as at March 31, 2022:
# Fair value of the total plan assets are 100% in funds managed by Insurer.
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the group.
249
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 269
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Present value of the obligations at end
 542 
 413 
Fair value of plan assets
 (249)
 (169)
Deficit of funded plan/gratuity plan
 293 
 244 
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
%
%
Discount rate
 7.13 - 7.30 
 6.76 - 6.80 
Future salary increases
 8 -12 
 8 -12 
The principal assumptions used in determining defined benefit obligations are shown below:
(i) Economic Assumptions
The net liability disclosed above relates to funded plans are as follows:
27. Gratuity (Contd..)
Assumptions
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2022
Discount rate
Future salary increases
0.5% increase
0.5% decrease
0.5% increase
0.5% decrease
Sensitivity Level
Impact on defined benefit obligation
 (10)
 12 
 12 
 (10)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Retirement Age  (Years)
60
60
Mortality  rates inclusive of provision for disability
100% of IALM  
(2012 - 14)
100% of IALM  
(2012 - 14)
Ages
Withdrawal Rate %
	
Up to 30 Years        
30
30
	
From 31 to 44 years        
30
30
	
Above 44 years       
30
30
 
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption as at March 31, 2022 is as shown below:
Assumptions
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2021
Discount rate
Future salary increases
0.5% increase
0.5% decrease
0.5% increase
0.5% decrease
Sensitivity Level
Impact on defined benefit obligation
 (1)
 14 
 13 
 * 
 
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption as at March 31, 2021 is as shown below:
	
The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined 
benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period. The 
methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the prior year.
	
Expected contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the year ending March 31, 2023 are H 162 (March 31, 2022 - H 113).
	
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 2.78 years (March 31, 2021: 2.76 years). 
(i) Demographic Assumptions
250
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 270
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
27. Gratuity (Contd..)
	
The average remaining working life of members of the defined benefit obligation as at March 31, 2022 is 29.91 years (as 
at March 31, 2021- 29.06 years)
 
The expected maturity analysis of  gratuity is as follows:
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period)
 102 
 74 
Between 1-2 years
 104 
 78 
Between 2 and 5 years
 188 
 150 
Beyond 5 years
 148 
 111 
Total expected payments
 542 
 413 
 
Risk exposure
	
Through its defined benefit plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed 
below:
	
Asset volatility: The plan assets are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to bond yields. If plan assets 
underperform this yield, there will be a deficit of the plan asset investments in fixed income securities with high grades 
and in government securities. These are subject to interest rate risk and the fund manages interest rate risk to an 
acceptable level.
	
Changes in bond yields: The defined benefit obligation calculated uses a discount rate based on government bonds. If 
bond yields fall, the defined benefit obligation will tend to increase.
	
Inflation risks: The payments are not linked to inflation, so this is a less material risk.
	
Life expectancy: Obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy and 
inflation will result in an increase in the plans’ liabilities. This is particularly significant where inflationary conditions result 
in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
 
Major categories of plans assets are as follows:
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
 Amount 
 In % 
 Amount 
 In % 
Government securities
 (101)
 40.42 
 (67)
 39.39 
Non convertible debentures
 (117)
 47.10 
 (85)
 50.37 
Others
 (31)
 12.48 
 (17)
 10.24 
Total
 (249)
 100.00 
 (169)
 100.00 
28. Income Tax
The major components of income tax expense for the Year ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021 are:
Consolidated Statement of profit and loss:
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Current income tax:
Current income tax charge
 151 
 34 
Deferred tax:
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
 (38)
 (7)
Income tax expense reported in the Statement of profit or loss
 113 
 27 
251
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 271
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
28. Income Tax (Contd..)
Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India’s domestic tax rate for Year ended March 
31,2022 and March 31,2021:
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Accounting profit before income tax
 (23,851)
 (16,983)
At India’s statutory income tax rate of 25.17% (March 31, 2021: 25.17%)
 (6,003)
 (4,274)
Tax expense during the period for Paytm Associate Benefit Welfare Trust 
(formerly known as One 97 Employee Welfare Trust)
 3 
 2 
Share of results of associates
 115 
 186 
Tax in foreign jurisdiction
 (6)
 (18)
Effect of tax free rates in foreign jurisdiction
 (5)
 (29)
Other non-deductible expenses
 143 
 72 
Losses on which deferred taxes not recognised*
 4,977 
 3,762 
Unabsorbed depreciation on which deferred taxes not recognised*
 476 
 250 
Other temporary differences on which deferred taxes utilised
 (36)
 (7)
Other temporary differences on which deferred taxes not recognised*
 449 
 83 
 113 
 27 
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit and loss
 113 
 27 
Particulars
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Consolidated statement of profit 
and loss
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
 (2)
 (6)
 (2)
 (6)
Unrealised gain on investments
 - 
 - 
 (115)
Loss allowance on financial assets
 - 
 - 
 * 
 - 
Deferred tax assets
Unabsorbed depreciation
 - 
 - 
 - 
 115 
Net deferred tax liabilities
 (2)
 (6)
Deferred tax assets
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
 * 
 6 
 6 
 (1)
Loss allowance on financial assets
 * 
 4 
 4 
 - 
Losses available for offsetting against future 
taxable income
 38 
 24 
 (14)
 - 
Employee Benefits
 33 
 - 
 (33)
 - 
Preliminary Expense
 (1)
 - 
 1 
 - 
Deferred tax liabilities
Unrealised foreign exchange gain/loss
 * 
 1 
 - 
 - 
Net deferred tax assets
 70 
2
Deferred tax expense/(income)
 (38)
 (7)
252
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 272
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
28. Income Tax (Contd..)
Reconciliation of deferred tax liabilities (net)
Particulars
Net deferred tax liabilities
Net deferred tax assets
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Opening balance as of 1 April
 (6)
 (11)
 35 
 32 
Tax income/(expense) during the year 
recognised in profit or loss
 3 
 6 
 35 
 * 
Impact of FCTR
 1 
 (1)
 - 
 3 
Closing balance as at 31 March
 (2)
 (6)
 70 
 35 
Particulars
Expiry Date 
(Year ended 
March 31,)
As of  
March 31, 2022
As of  
March 31, 2022 Tax 
impact @ 25.17%
Tax Losses
2023
 3,316 
 835 
2024
 14,943 
 3,761 
2025
 7,545 
 1,899 
2026
 14,098 
 3,548 
2027
 38,927 
 9,797 
2028
 22,792 
 5,736 
2029
 14,174 
 3,567 
2030
 19,884 
 5,004 
Total tax losses
 135,679 
 34,149 
Unabsorbed depreciation
No expiry period
 6,287 
 1,582 
Other temporary differences
 11,592 
 2,917 
Total
 153,557 
 38,648 
Particulars
Expiry Date 
(Year ended 
March 31,)
As of  
March 31, 2021
As of  
March 31, 2021 Tax 
impact @ 25.17%
Tax Losses
2023
 3,316 
 835 
2024
 14,943 
 3,761 
2025
 7,545 
 1,807 
2026
 14,098 
 3,508 
2027
 38,927 
 9,626 
2028
 22,792 
 5,717 
2029
 14,174 
 3,762 
Total tax losses
 115,795 
 29,016 
Unabsorbed depreciation
No expiry period
 4,402 
 1,108 
Other temporary differences
 9,351 
 2,353 
Total
 129,548 
 32,477 
* As at the  year ended on March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021, the Group is having net deferred tax assets comprising of deductible temporary 
differences, brought forward losses and unabsorbed depreciation under tax laws. However in the absence of reasonable certainty as to its realization 
of Deferred Tax Assets (DTA), DTA has not been created.
Deductible temporary differences for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the Balance Sheet:
Deductible temporary differences for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the Balance Sheet:
253
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 273
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
29. Commitments and contingencies	
a.	 Leases
 
Operating lease: Group as Lessee
	
The Group has taken certain office space on short term operating lease. The leases have varying terms, escalation 
clauses and renewal rights. On renewal, the terms of the leases are renegotiated. Rental expense towards leases for 
short term period charged to Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2022 amounts to 
H 100 (March 31, 2021: H 92).
b.	 Lease not yet commenced
	
During the previous year, the Holding Company has entered into a lease agreement for 9 years having lock-in period of 
5 years, for which lease is not yet commenced as on March 31, 2022. The Holding Company is committed to pay lease 
rentals of H 293 over the period of 5 years. 
c.	 Capital commitments
	
Estimated amount of contracts towards property, plant & equipment remaining to be executed on capital account and not 
provided for is H 3,060 (Net of capital advance of H 763) [March 31 2021: H 3,724 (Net of capital advance of H 180)].
d.	 Contingent liabilities	
i)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts
 498 
 476 
Income Tax related matters
 63 
 16 
Total
 561 
 492 
	
ii)	
The Group will continue to assess the impact of further developments relating to retrospective application of Supreme 
Court judgement dated February 28, 2019 clarifying the definition of ‘basic wages’ under Employees’ Provident Fund and 
Miscellaneous Provisions Act 1952 and deal with it accordingly. In the assessment of the management, the aforesaid matter is 
not likely to have a significant impact and accordingly, no provision has been made in these Consolidated Financial Statements.
	
iii)	
The Holding Company has been made aware of certain matters/claims relating to infringement of trademarks and patents 
in relation to the business activities carried on by it. The Holding Company actively monitors such matters/claims along with 
appropriate legal/technology experts to assess their veracity and takes action as considered necessary. In the opinion of the 
management, no material liability is likely to arise on account of such matters/claims, based on assessments made to date.
	
	
Notes:
	
	
1)	
It is not practicable for the Group to estimate the timing of cash outflows, if any.
	
	
2)	
The Group does not expect any reimbursements in respect of the above contingent liabilities.
30.	During the period ended June 30, 2021, the Holding Company had filed an adjudication application under Section 454 
read with Section 62(1)(b) and Section 450 of the Companies Act, 2013 before the office of the Registrar of Companies, 
NCT of Delhi & Haryana (ROC) on June 26, 2021, to adjudicate on the non-compliance with the provisions of Section 
62(1)(b) of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) read with Rule 12(1) of the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) 
Rules, 2014 (“the Rules”) in relation to grants of Employee Stock Options (ESOPs) made in earlier years to an employee. 
Consequently, the Holding Company had cancelled the said ESOP grants on July 5, 2021. Further, the shares issued to 
the concerned employee pursuant to exercise of certain vested ESOPs were also transferred by the employee to Paytm 
Associate Benefit Welfare Trust (Formerly known as One97 Employee Welfare Trust). The cumulative charge recognized 
till date in respect of the aforesaid ESOPs amounted to H 106.
	
During the quarter ended December 31, 2021, the ROC vide its order dated November 30, 2021, had directed the 
Holding Company to move an appropriate application for composition of offence under the relevant provision of the Act. 
Consequently, the Holding Company has filed a compounding application under section 441 read with section 62(1)(b) 
and Section 450 of the Act read with the Rules, before the Office of the Regional Director (Northern Region), Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs, New Delhi (‘RD’) on December 25, 2021.  
	
On March 15, 2022 RD has issued an order whereby RD has compounded the offence and levied compounding fees 
which has been duly paid and aforesaid matter is closed.
254
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 274
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
31. Fair value
Fair value hierarchy
The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the group’s assets and liabilities:
Level 1 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 - Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
(i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
Level 3 - Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
The following table presents fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of 
March 31, 2022
As of  
March 31, 2022
Fair value measurement at end of the reporting 
year using
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Assets
Investments at fair value through OCI
	
Investment in equity shares
 9,749 
 - 
 - 
 9,749 
Investments at fair value through Profit and loss
	
Investment in Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference Shares
 40 
 - 
 - 
 40 
	
Investment in optionally convertible debentures
 313 
 - 
 - 
 313 
	
Inter corporate loans
 1,362 
 - 
 - 
 1,362 
The following table presents fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of 
March 31, 2021
As of  
March 31, 2021
Fair value measurement at end of the reporting 
year using
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Assets
Investments at fair value through OCI
	
Investments in Equity Shares
 248 
 - 
 - 
 248 
Investments at fair value through Profit and loss
	
Investment in Compulsorily Convertible 
Preference Shares
 40 
 - 
 - 
 40 
	
Investments in Equity Shares
 53 
 - 
 - 
 53 
Other financial assets at fair value through Profit 
and loss
	
Other receivable from other parties*
 6,251 
 - 
 - 
 6,251 
*The Holding Company has an option to covert into equity shares of counter party.
The Group has assessed that fair value of all other financial assets and liabilities including cash and cash equivalents, bank 
balances other than cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, loans, other financial assets, investments, trade payables, 
lease liabilities, borrowings and other financial liabilities, approximate their carrying amounts.
255
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 275
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
32. Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, including market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group 
continues to focus on a system-based approach to business risk management. The Group’s financial risk management 
process seeks to enable the early identification, evaluation and effective management of key risks facing the business. 
Backed by strong internal control systems, the current Risk Management Framework rests on policies and procedures issued 
by appropriate authorities; process of regular internal reviews/audits to set appropriate risk limits and controls; monitoring of 
such risks and compliance confirmation for the same.  
a.	 Market Risk
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes 
in market prices. Market prices comprise three types of risk: interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and price risk. The 
Group has in place appropriate risk management policies to limit the impact of these risks on its financial performance. 
The Group ensures optimization of cash through fund planning and robust cash management practices.
 
(i) Interest Rate Risk
	
	
Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate 
because of changes in market interest rates. 
	
	
The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s borrowings with 
floating interest rates.
	
	
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, being a 0.5% 
increase or decrease in interest rate, with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s loss before tax due to the 
impact on floating rate borrowings.
As at
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Effect on loss before tax:
Decrease by 50 bps
(*)
(27)
Increase by 50 bps
*
27
	
	
Other financial assets and liabilities of the Group are either non-interest bearing or fixed interest bearing instruments, 
the Group’s net exposure to interest risk on such instruments is negligible.
	
	
The above sensitivity analysis is based on a reasonably possible change in the under-lying interest rate of the 
Group’s borrowings while assuming all other variables to be constant. 
	
	
Based on the movements in the interest rates historically and the prevailing market conditions as at the reporting date, 
the Group’s management has concluded that the above mentioned rates used for sensitivity are reasonable benchmarks.
	
	
*Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
 
(ii) Price risk
	
	
The Group invests its surplus funds in various debt instruments, fixed deposits and debt mutual funds. These 
comprise of primarily debt based mutual funds (liquid investments), debentures and fixed deposits. As on March 31, 
2021, all mutual fund investments were in liquid scheme only.
	
	
Mutual fund investments are susceptible to market price risk, mainly arising from changes in the interest rates or 
market yields which may impact the return and value of such investments. 
	
	
Set out below is the impact of a 0.25% movement in the NAV of mutual funds and debt instruments on the Group’s 
loss before tax:
256
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 276
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
32. Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd..)
Change in NAV
Effect on loss before tax
March 31, 2022
0.25%
Nil
 
-0.25%
Nil
March 31, 2021
0.25%
(4)
-0.25%
4
	
	
The Group is also exposed to equity/ preference shares price risk arising from investments held by the Group and 
classified in the balance sheet either as fair value through OCI or at fair value through profit or loss (refer note 6(a) 
and 6(b)). To manage its price risk arising from investments in equity/preference shares, the Group diversifies its 
portfolio. Diversification of the portfolio is done in accordance with the limits set by the Group.
 
(iii) Foreign currency risk
	
	
The Indian Rupee is the Group’s most significant currency. As a consequence, the Group’s results are presented 
in Indian Rupee and exposures are managed against Indian Rupee accordingly. Foreign currency risk is the risk 
that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates. 
The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the Group’s operating 
activities and investing activities (when revenue, expense and Property, Plant and Equipment is denominated in a  
foreign currency).
	
	
The carrying amounts of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities denominated in United States Dollar (USD) are 
as follows:
As at March 31, 2022
As at March 31, 2021
Financial 
assets
Financial 
liabilities
Financial 
assets
Financial 
liabilities
Amount in USD Millions
                   2 
1
1
3
Total
                  2 
1
1
3
	
	
The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity of profit or loss to a reasonably possible change in USD exchange 
rates, with all other variables held constant. The Group’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies 
is not material.
Change in USD rate
Effect on loss before tax
March 31, 2022
10% strengthening of USD against INR
(6)
 
10% weakening of USD against INR
5
March 31, 2021
10% strengthening of USD against INR
20
 
10% weakening of USD against INR
(16)
	
	
The above sensitivity analysis is based on a reasonably possible change in the under-lying foreign currency against 
the functional currency while assuming all other variables to be constant.
	
	
Based on the movements in the foreign exchange rates historically and the prevailing market conditions as at the 
reporting date, the Group’s management has concluded that the above mentioned rates used for sensitivity are 
reasonable benchmarks.
b.	 Credit Risk
	
Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or contract, leading to a 
financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) and from its 
investing activities, including deposits with banks. Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit 
risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. 
257
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 277
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
	
All of the Group investments and loans at amortised cost are considered to have low credit risk, and the loss allowance 
recognised during the period was therefore limited to 12 months expected losses. Management considers instruments 
to be low credit risk when they have a low risk of default and the issuer has a strong capacity to meet its contractual 
cash flow obligations in the near term.
 
(i) Trade receivables
	
	
The Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-payment by customers. Customer credit risk is managed 
subject to the Group’s established policy, procedures and control relating to customer credit risk management. An 
impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date by grouping the receivables in homogeneous group. The 
calculation is based on lifetime expected credit losses.
	
	
Expected credit loss for trade receivable under simplified approach- period ended March 31, 2022
32. Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd..)
Ageing
Unbilled 
Dues
Not 
due
0-1 
year
1-2 
year
2-3 
year
>3 year
Credit 
impaired
 Total 
Gross carrying amount
3,415
1,794
  2,551
370
123
111
716
9,080
Expected credit losses  
(Loss allowance provision)
147
125
178
247
105
98
716
1,616
Carrying amount  
(net of loss allowance)
3,268
1,669
2,373
123
18
13
-
7,464
Ageing
Unbilled 
Dues
Not 
due
0-1 
year
1-2 
year
2-3 
year
>3 
year
Credit 
impaired
Total
Gross carrying amount
1,578
1,421
1,940
321
160
187
676
6,283
Expected credit losses  
(Loss allowance provision)
258
45
62
204
148
177
676
1,570
Carrying amount  
(net of loss allowance)
1,320
1,376
1,878
117
12
10
-
4,713
	
	
Expected credit loss for trade receivable under simplified approach- year ended March 31, 2021
Reconciliation of loss allowance
Loss allowance measured 
at simplified approach
Loss allowance as on April 1, 2020
 1,360
Creation during the year#
   210
Loss Allowance as on March 31, 2021
1,570
Creation during the year#
    46
Loss Allowance as on March 31, 2022
1,616
	
	
#The above includes foreign currency adjustments as applicable for each year.
	
	
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of trade receivables. The Group 
does not hold collateral as security.
 
(ii) Other financial assets
	
	
Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Group’s treasury department in 
accordance with the Group’s policy. Investment of surplus funds is made only with banks of high repute.
	
	
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the balance sheet at March 31, 2022 and March 
31, 2021 is the carrying amounts as illustrated in Note 6.
258
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 278
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
32. Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd..)
Reconciliation of loss allowance
Loss allowance measured 
at simplified approach
Loss allowance as on April 1, 2020
31
Creation during the year#
215
Loss Allowance as on March 31, 2021
246
Creation during the year#
382
Loss Allowance as on March 31, 2022
628
	
	
#The above total includes foreign currency adjustments as applicable for each year.
c.	 Liquidity Risk
	
The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank 
overdrafts, working capital loans etc. Group monitor their risk of shortage of funds using cash flow forecasting models. 
These models consider the maturity of their financial investments, committed funding and projected cash flows  
from operations.
	
The Group’s objective is to provide financial resources to meet its business objectives in a timely, cost effective and 
reliable manner. A balance between continuity of funding and flexibility is maintained through the use of bank borrowings. 
The Group also monitors compliance with its debt covenants. The maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based 
on contractual undiscounted payments is given in the table below:
Particulars
0-180 
days
181-365 
days
     1-2 Year
More than 
2 year
Total
As at  March 31,  2022
Borrowings
        1
-
-
-
        1
Lease liabilities
     308
251
446
2,141
  3,146
Trade payables
   7,514
-
-
-
   7,514
Other financial liabilities
 18,005
-
-
-
 18,005
Total
     25,828
251
446
    2,141
   28,666
As at  March 31,  2021
Borrowings
5,449
-
-
-
5,449
Lease liabilities
  136
139
201
520
  996
Trade payables
6,052
-
-
-
6,052
Other financial liabilities
5,153
-
-
-
5,153
Total
    16,790
139
201
      520
  17,650
33.	Capital Management
The Group’s objectives while managing capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to generate 
adequate returns for its shareholders and ensuring benefits for other stakeholders. The key objective of the Group’s capital 
management is to ensure that it maintains a stable capital structure with the focus on total equity, uphold investor; creditor 
and customer confidence, and ensure future development of its business activities. The Group manages its capital structure 
and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions or its business requirements.
The Group’s capital management objective is to remain majorly a debt-free Group till the time it achieves break-even. In 
order to meet this objective, Group meets anticipated funding requirements for developing new businesses, expanding its 
geographical base, entering in to strategic mergers and acquisitions and other strategic investments, by issuance of equity 
capital together with cash generated from Group’s operating and investing activities. The Group utilizes certain working 
capital facilities in the form of short term bank overdraft to meet anticipated interim working capital requirements. 
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the year ended March 31, 2022 
and March 31, 2021.
259
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 279
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
34. Segment Reporting
During the previous year, the Group reassessed the basis of segment reporting. This reassessment had been necessitated 
by the change in business strategy over the period, increased interdependency between various service lines, increased 
fungibility of resources/common cost, change in the way Board of Directors (Chief Operating Decision Maker “CODM”) 
review Group’s performance etc. Earlier, the Company disclosed four reportable segments that were Payment, Commerce, 
Cloud and others.
In line with the above shift in business strategy and the consequent change in the way the CODM reviews the performance, 
management of the Group has aligned segment disclosure to the above change. Further, it has been concluded that though 
there are different business units of the Group, including Payment and Financial services, Commerce and cloud services, 
information reviewed by the CODM is at the revenue level and the Group does not allocate operating costs and expenses, 
assets and liabilities across business units, as the CODM does not use such information to allocate resources or evaluate 
the performance of the business units. Allocation of resources and assessment of financial performance is done at the 
consolidated level.
Accordingly, it has been assessed that Group operates in a single Operating as well as Reportable Segment. 
The Group has revenues primarily from customers domiciled in India. Substantially all of the Group’s non-current operating 
assets are domiciled in India.
Information about major customers
Revenues of H 10,107 are derived from one external customer (March 31, 2021: H 8,634 from one external customer).
260
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 280
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
35. Additional information
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Name of the entity 
Net Assets, i.e., total 
assets minus total 
liabilities
Share in profit or (loss)
Share in Total Other 
Comprehensive Income/
(Loss) for the year
Share in Total Comprehensive 
Income/ (Loss) for the year
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated total 
comprehensive 
income
 Amount 
Parent
One 97 Communications Limited
 97.05 %
 1,37,125 
 97.02 %
 (23,251)
(0.19)%
 (18)
 161.42 %
 (23,269)
Adjustment due to consolidation
(9.34)%
 (13,204)
(2.17)%
 520 
 2.04 %
 195 
(4.96)%
 715 
Subsidiaries
Indian
One 97 Communications India Limited
 0.61 %
 858 
(0.13)%
 32 
 0.00 %
 * 
(0.22)%
 32 
Paytm Entertainment Limited
 1.60 %
 2,267 
(0.11)%
 26 
 0.00 %
 * 
(0.18)%
 26 
Paytm Money Limited
 0.31 %
 443 
 0.45 %
 (107)
 0.00 %
 * 
 0.74 %
 (107)
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 0.06 %
 88 
 1.09 %
 (261)
(0.00)%
 * 
 1.81 %
 (261)
Urja Money Private Limited (Including step down subsidiary)
(0.03)%
 (49)
 0.18 %
 (44)
(0.00)%
 * 
 0.31 %
 (44)
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited (Including 
step down subsidiary)
 0.04 %
 52 
 0.10 %
 (25)
 0.01 %
 1 
 0.17 %
 (24)
Little Internet Private Limited (Including step down 
subsidiary)
(0.23)%
 (332)
 0.18 %
 (42)
 0.00 %
 * 
 0.29 %
 (42)
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 0.08 %
 116 
 0.08 %
 (20)
(0.03)%
 (3)
 0.16 %
 (23)
Paytm Payments Services Limited (w.e.f October 10, 2020)
 0.39 %
 547 
 0.04 %
 (9)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.06 %
 (9)
Paytm Insurance Broking private limited
 0.23 %
 332 
 0.33 %
 (79)
(0.00)%
 * 
 0.55 %
 (79)
Paytm Services Private Limited (Formerly known as 
Balance Technology Private Limited)
 0.06 %
 78 
(0.22)%
 52 
(0.02)%
 (2)
(0.35)%
 50 
Foreign
One97 Communications Singapore Private Limited 
(Including step down subsidiary)
 7.79 %
 11,001 
 1.10 %
 (264)
 98.19 %
 9,376 
(63.21)%
 9,112 
One97 Communications FZ-LLC
 0.07 %
 92 
(0.03)%
 7 
 0.00 %
 - 
(0.05)%
 7 
261
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 281
Name of the entity 
Net Assets, i.e., total 
assets minus total 
liabilities
Share in profit or (loss)
Share in Total Other 
Comprehensive Income/
(Loss) for the year
Share in Total Comprehensive 
Income/ (Loss) for the year
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated total 
comprehensive 
income
 Amount 
One97 Communications Nigeria Limited
(0.10)%
 (143)
 0.05 %
 (13)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.09 %
 (13)
One97 USA Inc.
 0.01 %
 13 
(0.03)%
 7 
 0.00 %
 - 
(0.05)%
 7 
Non controlling interests in subsidiaries
(0.16)%
 (221)
 0.15 %
 (35)
 0.00 %
 * 
 0.24 %
 (35)
Interest in Associate (Investments as per equity method)
Indian
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
 1.38 %
 1,956 
 0.21 %
 (50)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.35 %
 (50)
Paytm General Insurance Limited
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
Paytm Life Insurance Limited
 0.00 %
 * 
 0.00 %
 * 
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
Infinity Transoft Private Limited
 0.06 %
 79 
 0.03 %
 (7)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.05 %
 (7)
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
 0.14 %
 193 
 0.05 %
 (12)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.08 %
 (12)
Paytm Financials Services Limited
 0.00 %
 4 
 0.06 %
 (15)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.10 %
 (15)
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited (Formerly known as 
QoRQL Private Limited)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
Interest in Joint Venture (Investments as per equity 
method)
Paytm First Games Private Limited 
 0.00 %
 - 
 1.56 %
 (374)
 0.00 %
 - 
 2.59 %
 (374)
100.00%
 141,295 
100.00%
 (23,964)
100.00%
 9,549 
100.00%
 (14,415)
35. Additional information (Contd..)
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
262
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 282
Name of the entity 
Net Assets, i.e., total 
assets minus total 
liabilities
Share in profit or (loss)
Share in Total Other 
Comprehensive Income/
(Loss) for the year
Share in Total Comprehensive 
Income/ (Loss) for the year
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated total 
comprehensive 
income
 Amount 
Parent
One 97 Communications Limited
 107.19 %
 69,845 
 91.72 %
 (15,602)
 51.33 %
 (15)
 91.65 %
 (15,617)
Adjustment due to consolidation
(22.89)%
 (12,763)
(2.76)%
 469 
 39.00 %
 (12)
(2.68)%
 458 
Subsidiaries
Indian
One 97 Communications India Limited
 1.27 %
 826 
(0.00)%
*
 0.00 %
 * 
(0.00)%
 * 
Paytm Financial Services Limited
 - 
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 * 
 0.00 %
 - 
Paytm Entertainment Limited
 3.44 %
 2,242 
(0.08)%
 14 
 0.00 %
 * 
(0.08)%
 14 
Paytm Money Limited
 0.75 %
 490 
 4.82 %
 (819)
 6.33 %
 (2)
 4.82 %
 (821)
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
 0.38 %
 246 
 1.43 %
 (243)
 6.00 %
 (2)
 1.44 %
 (245)
Urja Money Private Limited (Including step down 
subsidiary)
(0.02)%
 (12)
 0.22 %
 (37)
(2.00)%
 1 
 0.21 %
 (36)
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited (Including 
step down subsidiary)
 0.11 %
 69 
(0.01)%
 2 
 1.67 %
 (1)
(0.01)%
 2 
Little Internet Private Limited (Including step down 
subsidiary)
(0.45)%
 (290)
 0.46 %
 (79)
(3.00)%
 1 
 0.46 %
 (78)
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
 0.15 %
 98 
 0.75 %
 (127)
(6.00)%
 2 
 0.74 %
 (125)
Paytm Payments Services Limited (w.e.f October 10, 2020)
 0.76 %
 494 
 0.04 %
 (6)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.04 %
 (6)
Paytm Insurance Broking private limited
 0.63 %
 412 
 1.88 %
 (320)
 2.33 %
 (1)
 1.88 %
 (321)
Paytm Services Private Limited (Formerly known as 
Balance Technology Private Limited)
 0.04 %
 26 
 0.09 %
 (15)
(0.33)%
 * 
 0.08 %
 (15)
35. Additional information (Contd..)
For the year ended March 31, 2021
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
263
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 283
Name of the entity 
Net Assets, i.e., total 
assets minus total 
liabilities
Share in profit or (loss)
Share in Total Other 
Comprehensive Income/
(Loss) for the year
Share in Total Comprehensive 
Income/ (Loss) for the year
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated total 
comprehensive 
income
 Amount 
Foreign
One97 Communications Singapore Private Limited 
(Including step down subsidiary)
2.14%
 1,397 
(2.82)%
 480 
 0.00 %
 - 
(2.82)%
 480 
One97 Communications FZ-LLC
0.13%
 82 
(0.38)%
 65 
 0.00 %
 - 
(0.38)%
 65 
One97 Communications Nigeria Limited
(0.21)%
 (138)
 0.03 %
 (5)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.03 %
 (5)
One97 USA Inc.
0.01%
 5 
 0.01 %
 (2)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.01 %
 (2)
Non controlling interests in subsidiaries
(0.29)%
 (186)
 0.29 %
 (49)
(1.67)%
 1 
 0.29 %
 (49)
Interest in Associate (Investments as per equity method)
Indian
Paytm Payments Bank Limited
7.40%
 2,007 
(0.55)%
 94 
 6.00 %
 (2)
(0.54)%
 92 
Paytm General Insurance Limited
(0.09)%
 - 
 0.03 %
 (5)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.03 %
 (5)
Paytm Life Insurance Limited
0.00%
 - 
 0.00 %
 * 
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
Infinity Transoft Private Limited
(0.10)%
 86 
 0.06 %
 (10)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.06 %
 (10)
Eatgood Technologies Private Limited
0.12%
 205 
 0.21 %
 (35)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.20 %
 (35)
Paytm Financial Services Limited
0.14%
 19 
 0.00 %
 (1)
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 (1)
Paytm Insuretech Private Limited (Formerly known as 
QoRQL Private Limited)
0.03%
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
 0.00 %
 - 
Interest in Joint Venture (Investments as per equity 
method)
Paytm First Games Private Limited 
(0.65)%
 - 
 4.59 %
 (782)
 0.33 %
 * 
 4.59 %
 (782)
100.00%
 65,162 
100%
 (17,010)
100.00%
 (30.00)
100.00%
 (17,040)
35. Additional information (Contd..)
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
264
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 284
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
36. Impairment review of goodwill arising on Consolidation
The Group monitors the business of the respective acquisitions independently and thus considers each acquisition as a 
separate Cash Generating Unit (‘CGU’).
Carrying amount of Goodwill (net of impairment):-
Cash Generating Unit
As at  
March 31, 2022
As at  
March 31, 2021
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
140
164
Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited
202
202
Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited
68
68
Urja Money Private Limited
33
33
Total 
443
467
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Orbgen Technologies Private Limited
24
-
Total 
24
-
The Group reviews the goodwill for any impairment at the CGU level. The recoverable amount of the above CGUs are based 
on value-in-use, which is determined based on five year business plans that have been approved by the management 
for internal purposes. The said planning horizon of five years reflects the assumptions for short to medium-term market 
developments. The cash flows beyond the planning period are extrapolated using appropriate terminal growth rates. The 
terminal growth rates used do not exceed the long term average growth rates of the respective industry and country in 
which the entity operates and are consistent with the internal/external sources of information.
The key assumptions used in value-in-use calculations are as follows: 
	
•	
Earnings before interest and taxes margins (‘EBIT’) 
	
•	
Discount rate
	
•	
Growth rates
EBIT margins: The margins have been estimated based on past experience after considering incremental revenue arising 
out of increase in payment business from the existing and new customers. Margins will be positively impacted from 
the efficiencies and initiatives driven by the Group; whereas, factors like increased cost of operations may impact the  
margins negatively. 
Discount rate: Discount rate reflects the current market assessment of the risks specific to the CGU estimated based on the 
weighted average cost of capital. Pre-tax discount rate used ranged from 20% to 25% (March 31, 2021 20% to 25%) which 
in the opinion of management are consistent with companies in similar business.
Growth rates: The terminal growth rates used are in the opinion of management in line with the long-term average growth 
rates of the respective industry in which the entity operates and are consistent with the internal/external sources of 
information. The terminal growth rates used in extrapolating cash flows beyond the planning period, range from 1.5 to 2.5 
times (March 31, 2021 - 1.5 to 2.5 times) of revenue for the terminal year.
Goodwill Impairment 
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the goodwill arising on account of consolidation has been impaired based on above 
mentioned analysis. 
During the year ended March 31, 2021, no additional impairment is required based on above-mentioned analysis.
Below is the table showing the value of goodwill impaired for the subsidiaries.
Impairment of Goodwill
265
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 285
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
37. Transactions with Non-controlling Interests
As on March 31, 2021 the Group holds 65.71% in Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited. During previous year, the 
Group acquired additional 10.81% stake for H 93 in Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited. The Group had 54.90% 
stake in  Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited immediately prior to purchase. The Group recognised a decrease 
in non-controlling interests of H (3) and a decrease in equity attributable to owners of the parent of H 3. The effect on the 
equity attributable to the owners of One 97 Communications Limited during previous year is summarised in the below table.
During previous year, the Group % of holding in Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited diluted on account of exercise of 
ESOP by employees by 4.07% stake. The Holding Company purchased these shares for H 63 and shareholding as on March 
31, 2021: 100%.
Non Controlling Interests (NCI)
Set out below is summarised financial information for each subsidiary that has non-controlling interests that are material to 
the Group. The amounts disclosed for each subsidiary are before inter-company eliminations.
31-March-22
31-Mar-21
Carrying amount of non-controlling interests acquired
 - 
 (3)
Consideration paid to non-controlling interests
 - 
 - 
Excess of consideration paid recognised in retained earnings within equity
 - 
 (3)
31-March-22
31-Mar-21
Carrying amount of non-controlling interests acquired
 - 
 12 
Consideration paid to non-controlling interests
 - 
 63 
Excess of consideration paid recognised in retained earnings within equity
 - 
 (51)
Summarised Balance Sheet
Little Internet Private Limited
Nearbuy Internet Private Limited
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Current assets
 6 
 13 
 52 
 67 
Current liabilities
 44 
 46 
 115 
 214 
Net current assets
 (38)
 (33)
 (62)
 (147)
Non-Current assets
 1 
 2 
 9 
 13 
Non-Current liabilities
 105 
 97 
 108 
 28 
Net non-current assets
 (104)
 (95)
 (100)
 (15)
Net assets
 (142)
 (128)
 (161)
 (162)
Accumulated NCI
 (180)
 (164)
 # 
 # 
Summarised statement of profit and loss
Little Internet Private Limited
Nearbuy Internet Private Limited
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Revenue
 - 
 - 
 86 
79
Loss for the year
 (14)
 (83)
 (35)
 (108)
Other comprehensive income / (loss)
 * 
 * 
 * 
 1 
Total comprehensive income
 (14)
 (83)
 (35)
 (107)
Loss allocated to NCI
 (16)
 (47)
 # 
 # 
# Accumulated NCI and Profit allocated to NCI of Little Internet Private Limited includes accumulated NCI and loss allocated for Nearbuy Internet 
Private Limited.
266
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 286
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
37. Transactions with Non-controlling Interests (Contd..)
Summarised Balance Sheet
Little Internet Private Limited
Nearbuy Internet Private Limited
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Net cash used in operating activities
 * 
 (1)
 (144)
 (49)
Net cash flows/used in investing activities
 (7)
 10 
 17 
 (12)
Net cash flows from financing activities
 (1)
 - 
 136 
 54 
Net increase/ (decrease) in cash and cash 
equivalents
 (8)
 9 
 9 
 (7)
*Other receivable from other parties given in Note 6 (d) of the Financial Statements includes derivative assets of H Nil (March 31, 2021: H 56). The same 
is not included in the above reported balances.
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Group.
38.	Details of Transactions and outstanding balances of Paytm E-Commerce Private Limited (PEPL) 
Details of transactions entered during the year
Details of outstanding balances
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Rendering of services to PEPL
1,281
1,344
Reimbursement of expenses incurred on behalf of PEPL
122
314
Interest Income on unwinding of Discount
-
110
Services received from PEPL
189
242
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Other Financial Assets*
13
6,394
Trade payables
79
202
Other Financial Liability
126
58
Contract liabilities
4,176
5,206
Trade Receivable
30
77
39.	Overdue outstanding foreign currency receivable and payable 
As of March 31, 2022, the Group has certain foreign currency receivable balances aggregating to H 25, H 65 and  
H 265 which are outstanding for more than nine months, fifteen months (extended from nine months via RBI circular- RBI/2019-
20/206 A. P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 27 dated April 1, 2020, for the exports made up to or on July 31, 2020) and three years, 
respectively. The Group has applied to the AD Bank seeking permission for extension of time for realisation for receivables 
amounting to H 65 and write-off of receivables amounting to H 5. Further, an application has been made by Holding Company 
to the RBI vide the letter dated December 17, 2020 for seeking approval for extension of time-limit of outstanding receivable 
balances amounting to H 191 and write off of receivable balances amounting to H 94 and approval is currently awaited.  
As of March 31, 2022, the Group also has certain foreign currency payable balances aggregating to H 1.33* which are 
outstanding for more than three years. The Group has also filed an application to Reserve Bank of India (RBI) vide 
letters dated July 29, 2021 and August 9, 2021 for H 1.33* for permission to write-back payable balances and approval is  
currently awaited.
Management does not expect any material financial implication on account of the delay under existing regulations.
* Amount disclosed up to two decimal places.
267
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 287
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
40. Transfer pricing
The Group has established a comprehensive system of maintenance of information and documents as required by the 
transfer pricing legislation under sections 92-92F of the Income Tax Act, 1961/applicable regulations. For this purpose, the 
Group has appointed independent consultants for conducting Transfer Pricing Study. Management is of the opinion that its 
international transactions with associated enterprises have been undertaken at arms’ length basis at duly negotiated prices 
on usual commercial terms. The transfer pricing study of the Holding Company for the year ended March 31, 2021 has been 
completed which did not result in any material adjustment.
41. Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR) expenditure
The Holding Company has not earned net profit in three immediately preceding financial years, therefore, there was no 
amount as per section 135 of the Act which was required to be spent on CSR activities in the current financial period by the 
Holding Company. However, the Group has spent an amount of H 14 (March 31, 2021: H 4) as CSR expenditure.
42. Notes given by the subsidiaries and joint venture in their respective standalone financial 
statements
a)	 Nearbuy India Private Limited:
	
“The Company is primarily engaged in the business of developing local commerce marketplace that connects merchants 
to customers by offering services and goods of merchants. The outbreak of Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic globally 
and in India is causing significant disturbance and slowdown of economic activity. Measures taken to contain the spread 
of the virus, including travel bans, quarantines, social distancing, and closures of non-essential services have triggered 
significant disruptions to businesses worldwide, resulting in an economic slowdown and uncertainties pertaining to 
future operations. 
	
Due to partial/ complete lockdowns from time to time in various states in India, the Company’s operations were also 
impacted and the Company has been taking measures to reduce cost and strategizing to enhance its service offering 
verticals and other measures to scale up it’s business. The Company expects the operations to further normalize 
gradually. Further, the Company has considered the possible effects that may result from COVID 19 on the carrying 
amount of its current assets on the basis of available information. The impact of COVID-19 may impact the underlying 
assumptions and estimates used to prepare the Company’s financial statements, which may differ from that considered 
as at the date of approval of these financial statements.”  
b)	 Wasteland India Private Limited:
	
“The Company is in the business of being a market place to sell tickets for live events through its portal www.insider.
in and conduct partnership events. The outbreak of Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic globally and in India is causing 
significant disturbance and slowdown of economic activity. Measures taken to contain the spread of the virus, including 
travel bans, quarantines, social distancing, and closures of non-essential services have triggered significant disruptions 
to businesses worldwide, resulting in an economic slowdown and uncertainties pertaining to future operations.
	
Due to lockdown in India, the operations of the Company have also been impacted. The Company is expecting lower 
volumes of business and expects the operations to normalize in near future. The Company is strategizing to enhance/
explore its service offering verticals other measures to scale up it’s business. Although, there is revival in the economic 
activities and businesses across several sectors, there is limited business activity in relation Company’s regular 
operations on account of sector specific restrictions continued by the Government. 
	
Further, the Company has considered the possible effects that may result from COVID 19 on the carrying amount of it’s 
current assets on the basis of available information. The impact of COVID 19 on the financial statements may differ from 
that estimated as at the date of approval of these financial statements.”
268
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 288
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
c)	 Paytm Entertainment Limited:
	
The Company’s financial assets as at March 31, 2021 were more than 50% of its total assets and its income from financial 
assets was more than 50% of the total income for FY 20-21. As per the press release dated April 8, 1999 issued by 
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) the Company fulfilled the principal business criteria for being classified as a Non-Banking 
Financial Company (NBFC) as at March 31, 2021 and accordingly required to obtain registration as such. However, 
management has stated that this position was temporary in nature and arose on account of interest income on short 
term loan amounting to H 809,164 thousands as at March 31, 2021 given to its Joint Venture Company, Paytm First 
Games Private Limited (PFG) on account of a commercial exigency and sudden business needs owing to the ongoing 
pandemic and this loan was due for repayment in the month of September, 2021 (“One Time Short-Term Loan”). The 
loan was a one-off loan and is not a part of the ordinary course of business of the Company. It was not intended that 
this would be a systemic practice going forward. Out of the above said loan, H 250,000 thousands was repaid back by 
the borrower on May 25, 2021 and remaining amount was repaid in full on September 24, 2021 along with the accrued 
interest. Accordingly, the Company has filed an application dated May 26, 2021 and other documents on December 14, 
2021 with the RBI seeking dispensation from registration as an NBFC. Further communication from RBI is awaited in  
this regard.
d)	 Paytm First Games Private Limited:
	
As of March 31, 2022, the Company has certain foreign currency payable balances aggregating to H 2,190 lakhs which 
are outstanding for more than six months. The Company has filed an application to Authorised Dealer (AD) Bank vide 
letter dated April 27, 2022 seeking permission for extension of time for payment and approval is currently awaited.
	
As of March 31, 2022, the Company also has certain foreign currency receivable balances aggregating to H 4.29 lakhs 
which are outstanding for more than nine months. The Company has applied to the AD Bank vide letter dated April 8, 
2022 seeking permission for extension of time for realisation of the amount and approval is currently awaited.
	
Management does not expect any material financial implication on account of the delay under existing regulations.
e)	 Paytm Insurance Broking Private Limited:
	
The Company has received a show-cause notice dated September 09, 2021 issued by the Insurance Regulatory 
Development Authority of India (“IRDAI”). The said notice alleges that the increases in the paid-up share capital of 
the Company as on September 30, 2020 and March 31, 2021, pursuant to investments by its Holding Company, One 
97 Communications Limited (“OCL”) are considered to be in violation of a circular issued by IRDAI dated May 18, 2020 
on FDI norms and other applicable laws. The Company responded to the said notice on September 29, 2021, denying 
the allegations and confirming that it complied with all applicable laws, including, in relation to FDI norms, in relation to 
such investments by OCL as pursuant to these investments there has been no change in the beneficial ownership or 
shareholding of the Company. Further, IRDAI has, through correspondence dated October 20, 2021, asked the Company 
to furnish a certificate from a chartered accountant certifying, among others, the amount of OCL’s internal accruals for 
FY 2021 and how much of it was invested in the Company, and whether OCL has received any equity or debt funding 
post March 2020 and details thereof. The Company has reverted to the said correspondence along with the required 
certificates on October 26, 2021. The Company has provided further clarifications and information to IRDAI through 
email dated November 30, 2021, December 17, 2021 and December 21, 2021. The Company has not received any further 
communication from IRDAI. 
40. Transfer pricing (Contd..)
269
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 289
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
43. During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Holding Company has completed its initial public offer (IPO) of 85,116,278 
equity shares of face value of H 1 each at an issue price of H 2,150 per share, comprising fresh issue of 38,604,651 shares 
and offer for sale of 46,511,627 shares by selling shareholders. Pursuant to the IPO, the equity shares of the Holding 
Company were listed on National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) and BSE Limited (BSE) on November 18, 2021.
	
The Holding Company has incurred H 4,115 million as IPO related expenses and allocated such expenses between the 
Company H 1,866 million and selling shareholders H 2,249 million. Such amounts were allocated based on agreement 
between the Holding Company and selling shareholders and in proportion to the total proceeds of the IPO. Out of Holding 
Company’s share of expenses of H 1,866 million, H 1,401 million has been adjusted to securities premium.
	
Details of utilisation of net IPO Proceeds of H 81,134 million, are as follows:
S. 
No
Objects of the issue
Amount as 
proposed in 
Offer Document
Amount Utilised 
up to March 31, 
2022
Amount Un-
utilised as on 
March 31, 2022
1
Growing and strengthening our Paytm ecosystem, 
including through acquisition and retention of 
consumers and merchants and providing them with 
greater access to technology and financial services
43,000
35,476
i)	 Marketing and promotional expenses
1,552
ii)	 Expanding our merchant base and deepening our 
partnership with our merchants
3,372
iii)	 Strengthening and expanding our technology 
powered payments platform
2,600
Total (A)
43,000
7,524
35,476
2
Investing in new business initiatives, acquisitions and 
strategic partnerships
20,000
20,000
i)	 Investments in new business initiatives
	
a)	 Payment Services
-
	
b)	 Commerce and cloud services
-
	
c)	 Financial Services
-
ii)	 Investments in acquisitions and strategic 
partnerships
-
Total (B)
20,000
-
20,000
3
General corporate purposes
18,134
1,974
16,160
Total (C)
18,134
1,977
16,157
Total (A+B+C)
81,134
9,498
71,636
Net IPO proceeds which were un-utilised as at March 31, 2022 were temporarily invested in fixed deposits with scheduled 
commercial banks and in monitoring agency account.
270
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 290
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Amounts in H Million, unless otherwise stated)
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III
(i)	 The Group has granted loans and made investment in some of its subsidiary companies, associate companies and joint ventures. Loans has been given for general corporate 
purpose. In some of the cases, the subsidiaries, associate and joint ventures have utilised borrowings for further investment as per their business requirement. Details of the Loans 
and investments are as follows:
One 97 Communications Limited
Name of 
Intermediary
CIN
Relation with 
Company
Type
Date
Amount
Name of Ultimate 
beneficiary
Relation with Intermediary
Type
Date
Amount
Admirable Software 
Limited
U72900DL2021PLC385287
Associate 
Company
Optionally 
Convertible 
Debentures
August 27, 
2021
175
Urja Money Private 
Limited
Ultimate beneficiary is the subsidiary 
of the company which has significant 
influence over the intermediary
Equity 
Investment
August 27, 2021
175
Admirable Software 
Limited
U72900DL2021PLC385287
Associate 
Company
Optionally 
Convertible 
Debentures
February 
11, 2022
57
Mobiquest Mobile 
Technologies Private 
Limited
Ultimate beneficiary is the subsidiary 
of the company which has significant 
influence over the intermediary
Equity 
Investment
February 18, 2022
7
Urja Money Private 
Limited
U93000MH2012PTC237284
Subsidiary 
Company
Loan
June 30, 
2021
15
Fincollect Services 
Private Limited
Subsidiary of the intermediary
Loan
July 15, 2021
5
Urja Money Private 
Limited
U93000MH2012PTC237284
Subsidiary 
Company
Optionally 
Convertible 
Debentures
September 
28, 2021
30
Fincollect Services 
Private Limited
Ultimate beneficiary is the subsidiary 
of the company which has significant 
influence over the intermediary
Loan
September 30, 2021
1
October 1, 2021
*
October 7, 2021
*
October 18, 2021
15
November 2, 2021
*
November 30, 2021
*
December 31, 2021
3
January 6, 2022
*
Paytm First Games 
Private Limited 
U74999DL2017PTC325912
Joint Venture
Loan
June 7, 
2021
803
Paytm First Games 
Singapore Pte Limited
Subsidiary of the intermediary
Equity 
Investment
June 30, 2021
28
Paytm First Games 
Singapore Pte Limited
Subsidiary of the intermediary
Equity 
Investment
September 6, 2021
11
Paytm Technology 
Beijing Co., Limited
Subsidiary of the intermediary
Equity 
Investment
September 4, 2021
1
The above transactions are in compliance with the relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and the Companies Act, 2013 and the transactions 
are not violative of the Prevention of Money-Laundering act, 2002 (15 of 2003).
Notes given by the subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures in their respective standalone financial statements
271
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 291
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Paytm Financial Services Limited
“ Utilsation of the borrowed funds and share premium in the holding company.
During the previous year, the Company has received funds from its Ultimate Holding Company, One 97 Communications 
Limited (OCL) as mentioned in the table above. The Company has utilised the above funds for its business operations and 
invested an amount of H 1 and H 450 to its Subsidiary Companies, Admirable Software Limited on August 17, 2021 and Foster 
Payment Networks Private Limited on March 26, 2021, respectively.
Utilsation of the borrowed funds and share premium in the subsidiary company.
“During the year, the Admirable Software Limited has received funds from its Ultimate Holding Company, One 97 
Communications Limited (OCL) as mentioned in the table above. The Company has utilised the above funds for its business 
operations and has also invested an amount of H 175 to its Associate Company, Urja Money Private Limited on August 27, 
2021 and invested an amount of H 7 in Mobiquest Mobile Technologies Private Limited on February 18, 2022.“
The above transactions are in compliance with the relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 
of 1999) and the Companies Act, 2013 and the transactions are not violative of the Prevention of Money-Laundering act, 
2002 (15 of 2003). “
Urja Money Private Limited“
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
Date
Amount Mode
Funding Party
February 24, 2021
 250 Inter Company Deposits
One 97 Communications Limited
March 25, 2021
 200 Inter Company Deposits
One 97 Communications Limited
Date
Amount Mode
Funding Party
August 27, 2021
 175 Optionally Convertible Debentures
One 97 Communications Limited
February 11, 2022
 57 Optionally Convertible Debentures
One 97 Communications Limited
Date
Amount Mode
Funding Party
June 29, 2021
 15 Inter Company Deposits
One 97 Communications Limited
September 28, 2021
 30 Optionally Convertible Debentures
One 97 Communications Limited
During the year, the Company has received funds from its Holding Company, One 97 Communications Limited (OCL) as 
mentioned in the table above. The Company has utilised the above funds for its business operations and has also lent an 
amount of H 25 to its wholly owned subsidiary, Fincollect Services Private Limited (“FSPL”) on various dates during the year. 
The maximum outstanding balance of FSPL in the Company’s books at any point during the year was H 24. 
The above transactions are in compliance with the relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange ‘Management Act, 1999 (42 
of 1999) and the Companies Act, 2013 and the transactions are not violative of the Prevention of Money-Laundering act, 
2002 (15 of 2003).”
Paytm First Games Private Limited
” One97 Communications Limited (“”Parent of the Joint Venture Partner””) has provided a loan to its joint venture, Paytm First 
Games Private ‘Limited (“”The Intermediary””) of H 803 on June 7, 2021. Subsequently, the Company, based on the approvals 
from its Board, made a decision to invest part of the proceeds in Paytm First Games Singapore Pte Limited of H 28 and H 11 
on June 30, 2021 and September 6, 2021, respectively aggregating to H 39. Further, the Company also made investments in 
Paytm Technology Beijing Co., Limited of H 1 on September 4, 2021.“	
	
	
The above transactions are in compliance with relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 
1999), Companies Act and are not violative of the Prevention of Money-Laundering act, 2002 (15 of 2003).”
272
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 292
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
Name of the struck off company 
 Balance outstanding 
as at March 31, 2022 
 Balance outstanding 
as at March 31, 2021 
Relationship with the 
struck off company
Dravya Technosys Private Limited
 - 
 *  Vendor 
Global Softnet Software Private Limited
 - 
 *  Vendor 
Zapcel Technologies Pvt Ltd        
 * 
 *  Vendor 
One M Infomedia Private Limited    
 * 
 *  Vendor 
Vektrix Consulting Private Limited 
 * 
 *  Vendor 
Deep Enterprises Pvt Ltd           
 - 
 *  Vendor 
Shine Star Luxary Coach And Cargo 
Private Limited
 * 
 -  Customer 
Lahori Foods Private Limited       
 * 
 *  Customer 
Automark Pvt Ltd                   
 * 
 *  Customer 
Sripati Infracon Private Limited   
 2 
 2  Customer 
Life Plus Living Private Limited   
 * 
 *  Customer 
Deep Enterprises Pvt Ltd           
 * 
 -  Customer 
Bquobe Infosystem Private Limited  
 * 
 *  Customer 
SRS Entertainment Limited          
 * 
 *  Customer 
Name of struck off company
Balance outstanding as at March 31, 2022 
Relationship with the 
struck off company
Allstars United India Private Limited
Amount below rounding off norms adopted by 
the Group
Customer
Clay Station Art Studios Private Limited
Amount below rounding off norms adopted by 
the Group
Vendor
Little Internet Private Limited
”On December 30, 2019 the Company had taken a Inter Corporate Loan (ICD) of H 70 from its holding Company One 97 
Communications Limited (‘OCL’) with the understanding that the Company may invest in its Subsidiary Company (”Nearbuy”). 
Accordingly, the Company has invested fund in the Subsidiary Company amounting to H 7 (March 31, 2021: H 66). “	
Relevant provisions of Companies Act has been complied with for such transactions and the transactions are not violative of 
the Prevention of Money-Laundering act, 2002 (15 of 2003).” 
(ii)	 The Group has availed loan from the bank on the basis of security of current assets as disclosed under note 12(a) of the 
financial statements. The Group file statement of current assets with the bank on quarterly basis. There are no material 
discrepancies between the statement filed and the books of accounts.
(iii) Disclosure of Struck off Companies
	
Details of transactions entered into by the Group with companies struck off under section 248 of the Companies Act, 
2013 or section 560 of Companies Act, 1956 are as follows:	
 
(a) One 97 Communications Limited (Holding Company)
	
	
* Amount below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
 
(b) Wasteland Entertainment Private Limited (Subsidiary)
273
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 293
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
 
(c) Little Internet Private Limited (Subsidiary)
Name of struck off companies
 Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2022 and 
March 31, 2021
Relationship 
with the struck 
off company
A. J. Beauty and Health Private Limited, A3 Health Food Ventures Private 
Limited, Bts Hospitality Private Limited, Bglam Services Private Limited, Blue 
Mango Hospitality Private Limited, C V Restaurant Private Limited, D L Holdings 
Private Limited, Dice Hospitality Private Limited, Disha International Private 
Limited, Foodindex Restaurants Private Limited, G-six Flavours Private Limited, 
Gui Technologies Private Limited, Hazzel Dairy Products Private Limited, 
Honrao Hotels Private Limited, Impresa Hospitality Management Private 
Limited, Infinite One Foods Private Limited, In Green Hotels Private Limited, 
Jk Amici Hotels Private Limited, Jarota Enterprises Private Limited, Kan - Ket 
Marketing (Opc) Private Limited, Mandakini Vacations Private Limited, Micro 
Hotels Private Limited, Mookh Salons and Academy Private Limited, Paulsons 
Hospitality Private Limited, Paris Baker Private Limited, Pathway Hospitalities 
Private Limited, Royal Almond Hospitality Private Limited, Sai Prerna Complete 
Care Private Limited, Sk Food and Entertainment Private Limited, South 
Connect Foods Private Limited, Saihome Hospitality Private Limited, Sai 
Prerna Complete Care Private Limited, Sukhija Restaurant Private Limited, 
Surreal Hospitality Private Limited, Tattva Leisure Private Limited, Thai Orchid 
Hospitality Private Limited, Tourniete Private Limited, Triaza Entertainment 
Private Limited, Village Kitchen Hospitality Services Private Limited, Yellow 
Diamond Hospitality Private Limited, Global Beverages Private Limited, Al-an 
Ventures Private Limited, Ashleys Patisserie Private Limited, Aviashi Foods 
Private Limited, Big Bite Hospitality Private Limited, Chirag Restaurant Private 
Limited, Cafe Nine Private Limited, Chanson Hospitality Private Limited, City 
One Cafe & Bar Private Limited, Every Door Mystery Private Limited, Flash 
Foods and Beverages Private Limited, Frosty Foods and Beverages Private 
Limited, Falcon Hospitality Private Limited, Fnb Delights Private Limited, 
Fomokart Retail Private Limited, Food konnect Hospitality Private Limited, 
Green Park Hotels & Resorts Limited, Goldeneagle Fuds Private Limited, 
Golden Ginger Services Private Limited, Gratom Hospitality Private Limited, 
Iaea Food and Drinks Private Limited, Incubo Infotech Private Limited, Jitendra 
hindusthan Dhaba Private Limited, Jumbo Seafoods Private Limited, KV 
Hospitality Private Limited, Kattumaram Restaurants Private Limited, Malt and 
Leaf Hospitality Private Limited, Meuse Hotels and Hospitality Private Limited, 
Nfc Foods India Private Limited, Nutri Kitchen Private Limited, Pad Food 
Joint Private Limited, Palette Foods Private Limited, Pizzaroma Food Private 
Limited, Praana Restaurants Private Limited, Queen Marys Lifestyle Private 
Limited, R.j.establishments Private Limited, Rmb Hospitality (India) Private 
Limited, Rainbow Lifestyle Factory Private Limited, Red Ninja Hospitality 
Private Limited, Sahara Hospitality Limited, Sva Hospitality Private Limited, 
Scubert Retail Services Private Limited, Shivmitar Foodlinks Private Limited, 
Soni Mamaji Foods Private Limited, Tbc Tiffin Kaku Private Limited, Tech2trend 
It Solutions Private Limited, Tughlaq Foods Private Limited, Versus Hospitality 
Private Limited, Vittlecious Hospitality Private Limited, Ypa Hospitality Private 
Limited, Ariyansh Foods Private Limited.
Amount 
individually and 
in aggregate are 
below rounding 
off norms 
adopted by the 
Group
Vendor
274
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 294
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
Name of struck off companies
 Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2022 and 
March 31, 2021
Relationship 
with the struck 
off company
A K Hotels Private Ltd, A K M Enterprises Private Limited, Asthavinaayak 
Cuisines Private Limited, Acrotech (India) Private Limited, Ahoy Foods Private 
Limited, Alive Day Spa Private Limited, Aries Marcom Private Limited, Aten 
Foods Private Limited, Better Foods Private Limited, Big Barter Marketing 
Private Limited, Boudoir Lounge Private Limited, Bridgelink Wellness Private 
Limited, Celebrity Fitness India Private Limited, D Lite Frankies and Foods 
Private Limited, G K Culinary Private Limited, Gravy Train Hospitality Private 
Limited, Hsl Gourmet House Private Limited, Hospitality Plus Private Limited, 
I Square Hospitality Private Limited, Impressions Food and Hospitality Private 
Limited, Indus Builders Pvt. ltd., League Concepts Limited, M.a.hospitality 
Private Limited, Malt and Leaf Hospitality Private Limited, Mass Blurb Private 
Limited, Ninety5 Hotels Private Limited, Oleander Hospitality Private Limited, 
Om Sai Enterprises Private Limited, Potheads Food Private Limited, Pan Club 
Hotels Private Limited, Pandora Hospitality Private Limited, Pragati ways Food 
Tech Private Limited, Prav Hospitality Private Limited, Reviera Beauty Private 
Limited, Rembrandt Fashion Hospitality Private Limited, Sun Cafe & Bar Private 
Limited, Shan Holiday Inn Private Limited, Sri Vari Ventures Private Limited, 
Stellar Nri Services Private Limited, Stream Food Works Private Limited, Sukhija 
Hospitality Private Limited, Sunray Hospitality Private Limited, Swarna Thai Spa 
Private Limited, T N Salt House Private Limited, T N Salt House Private Limited, 
Wudstay Travels Private Limited, Aek Healthy Routes Private Limited, Aroundu 
Labs Private Limited, De Miami Cocoa Private Limited, Di Hair Salon Private 
Limited, Dietshala Private Limited, Fs Dining Private Limited, Fruition Hotels 
Private Limited, Gourmet Trails Private Limited, Hkk Foods Private Limited, 
Jackpot Ventures Private Limited, Kari Virunthu Restaurant Private Limited, King 
Mithaiwala Private Limited, La Pizzaiolo Foods Private Limited, Maruti Retail 
Private Limited, Metatron Hospitality India Private Limited, One World Cuisine 
Private Limited, Ora Dent Clinic Private Limited, Ora Dent Clinic Private Limited, 
Penguin Resorts Private Limited, R T Deshmukh Hotels (Pune) Private Limited, 
Simplify Gastronomy Private Limited, Sky Spa Private Limited, Solar Heights 
Developers Private Limited, Star Gourmet Private Limited, Thanco Natural 
Foods Private Limited, Triage Infrastructures (India) Private Limited, Two Aar’s 
Health & Fitness Private Limited, Urban Mingle Hospitality India Private Limited, 
Vip Pizza International Private Limited, Zi Foods Private Limited.
Amount 
individually and 
in aggregate are 
below rounding 
off norms 
adopted by the 
Group
Customer
275
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 295
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
 
(d) Nearbuy India Private Limited (Subsidiary)
Name of struck off companies
 Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2022 and 
March 31, 2021
Relationship 
with the struck 
off company
Bhole HR Solutions Private Limited, Harry’s Kitchens Private Limited, J One 
Entertainment Private Limited, Meuse hotels and Hospitality Private Limited, 
Mud Flap Technologies Private Limited, Sukhija Hospitality Private Limited, 
International Recreation & Amusement Limited, AKM Enterprises Private 
Limited, Andiviaa Entertainments Private Limited, Compere Hotels Private 
Limited, GK Motel Private Limited, Madras Ventures Private Limited, Next 
Level Food & Beverages Private Limited, Piccadily Holiday Resorts Limited, 
Prakruthi Ayurveda And Wellness, Red Ninja Hospitality Private Limited, 
Shivmitar Foodlinks Private Limited, T & D Ventures Private Limited, Uzhavan 
Foods Private Limited, Vroom Technologies Private Limited, Zam Zam Caterers 
Private Limited.
Amount 
individually and 
in aggregate are 
below rounding 
off norms 
adopted by the 
Group
Vendor
Name of struck off companies
 Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2022 and 
March 31, 2021
Relationship 
with the struck 
off company
Alive Day Spa Private Limited, BTS hospitality Private Limited, Greenpark 
Hotels & Resorts Limited, Meera Samuh Hospitality Services Private Limited, 
Sahara Hospitality Limited, Thai Orchid Hospitality Private Limited, Tease 
Salon Private Limited, YoYo Club Private Limited, International Recreation & 
Amusement Limited
Amount 
individually and 
in aggregate are 
below rounding 
off norms 
adopted by the 
Group
Customer
(iv) Details of benami property held
	
The Group does not hold any benami property and no proceedings have been initiated on or are pending against the 
Group under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 (as amended in 2016) (formerly the Benami 
Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988)) and Rules made thereunder.
(v) Wilful defaulter
	
The Group has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government 
authority.
(vi) Compliance with number of layers of companies
	
The Group has complied with the number of layers prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013.
(vii) Compliance with approved scheme(s) of arrangements
	
The Company has not entered into any scheme of arrangement which has an accounting impact on current or previous 
financial year.
276
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 296
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Amounts in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
44. Additional disclosures required by Schedule III (Contd..)
(viii) Undisclosed income
	
There is no income surrendered or disclosed as income during the current or previous year in the tax assessments under 
the Income Tax Act, 1961, that has not been recorded in the books of account.
(ix) Details of crypto currency or virtual currency
	
The Group has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the current or previous year.
(x) Valuation of PP&E, intangible asset and investment property
	
The Group does not  have any investment property during the current or previous year. The Group has chosen cost 
model for its Property, Plant and Equipment and intangible assets and hence no revaluation was carried out for these 
assets.
(xi) Title deeds of immovable properties not held in name of the company
	
The title deeds of all the immovable properties are held in the name of the Group during the current and previous year
(xii) Registration of charges or satisfaction with Registrar of Companies
	
There are no charges or satisfaction which are yet to be registered with the Registrar of Companies beyond the statutory 
period.
(xiii) Utilisation of borrowings availed from banks and financial institutions.
	
The Group has utilised the borrowing for the purpose it was obtainded.
45. Previous year figures, wherever necessary, have been regrouped/reclassified to conform to current year classification.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP	
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of
Firm registration number: 012754N/ N500016	
One 97 Communications Limited
Amitesh Dutta	
Vijay Shekhar Sharma	
Madhur Deora 
Partner	
Chairman, Managing Director and CEO	
Chief Financial Officer 
Membership No: 058507	
DIN No. 00466521
Place: Gurugram	
Place: New Delhi	
Place: Mumbai 
Date: May 20, 2022	
Date: May 20, 2022	
Date: May 20, 2022 
	
Amit Khera
	
Company Secretary
	
Place: Noida
	
Date: May 20, 2022
277
Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Annual Report 
2022

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 297
Notes

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 298
Notes

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 299
Notes

File: annual_report_22, Page number: 300
Registered Office
One 97 Communications Limited
First Floor, Devika Tower Nehru Place
New Delhi – 110019, India
Corporate Office
One 97 Communications Limited
One Skymark, Tower-D, Plot No. H-10B,
Sector-98, Noida - 201304 Uttar Pradesh
Telephone No.: +91 120 - 4770 770;
Fax No.: +91 120 - 4770 771
CIN No: L72200DL2000PLC108985
Email: compliance.officer@paytm.com;
Website: www.paytm.com

